DAGGERHEART 

System reference Document 1.0 

SRD Writer: Rob Hebert | Technical Editor: Shawn Banerjee | Layout: Matt Paquette & Co. | Producer: Madigan Hunt 

This document, including the Witherwild Campaign Frame, is considered Public Game Content per the Darrington Press Community Gaming License. Please read the Darrington Press Community Gaming License before using this material. 

© 2025 Critical Role LLC. All rights reserved. For more information, please visit www.darringtonpress.com/license. 

 CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION 4 

What Is This 4 The Basics 4 

STARTING ACAMPAIGN 5 

Session Zero 5 Setting Creation 6 

CHARACTER CREATION 8 

CORE MATERIALS 11 

Domains 11 Classes 12 Ancestries 31 Communities 36 

CORE MECHANICS 39 

Flow of the Game 39 Core Gameplay Loop 39 The Spotlight 39 Turn Order & Action Economy 40 Making Moves & Taking Action 40 Combat 43 Stress 43 Attacking 43 Maps, Range & Movement 44 Conditions 45 Downtime 45 Death 46 Additional Rules 46 Leveling Up 46 Multiclassing 47 Equipment 48 Weapons 48 Combat Wheelchair 57 Armor 59 Loot 61 Consumables 63 

RUNNING AN ADVENTURE 66 

Introduction 66 GM Guidance 66 Core GM Mechanics 67 Adversaries and Environments 74 The Witherwild Campaign Frame 114 

APPENDIX 120 

Domain Card Reference 120 

 INTRODUCTION 

Welcome to DAGGERHEART, a collaborative fantasy tabletop roleplaying game of incredible 

magic and heroic, heartfelt adventure. 

WHAT IS THIS? 

This is the Daggerheart SRD (System Reference Document). It is a repository of the mechanical elements of the Daggerheart system, edited and organized for clarity, conciseness, and quick reference. 

You can use this SRD in several ways: 

• To quickly look up Daggerheart’s rules-as-written during gameplay sessions. • To ensure any homebrew content you create or publish conforms with Daggerheart’s core ruleset. • To provide copy text made available by Darrington Press for your own publications under their Community Gaming License (www.darringtonpress.com/license). • To better understand the mechanics of Daggerheart, absent the flavor and setting information, so you can bend or break them in the process of making your own content. The Daggerheart SRD is not a replacement for the core rulebook, which contains setting information, additional examples of various gameplay elements, and tons of great advice for playing Daggerheart—not to mention gorgeous artwork and layout. 

In short, it is Daggerheart, the system, boiled down to the bones—a lean and clean offering without all the flavor, style, and supporting material that makes the core rulebook such an evocative and enjoyable read. We hope this document proves useful to your table. Happy adventuring! 

THE BASICS 

WHAT IS DAGGERHEART? 

Daggerheart is a tabletop roleplaying game for one Game Master (“GM”) and 2-5 players. Each game session lasts about 2-4 hours, and Daggerheart can be played as a one-shot or a multi-session campaign of any length. 

During a session of Daggerheart the GM describes situations, narrates events, and controls any adversaries or obstacles that the Player Characters (“PCs”) encounter. The players, in turn, roleplay their PCs’ reactions to the scenario presented by the GM. If the outcome of a player’s action depends on fate or fortune, the GM calls for an action roll. 

When a player makes an action roll, they utilize Duality Dice—two differently colored 12-sided dice (“d12s”) representing Hope and Fear. The Duality Dice are rolled, relevant modifiers are added to the results, and the total is compared to a Difficulty set by the GM. If the total meets or beats the Difficulty, the player succeeds. If it’s lower, they fail. In addition, the situation changes based on which Duality Die rolls higher, either giving the player helpful Hope tokens or generating terrifying Fear tokens for the GM. 

THE GOLDEN RULE 

The most important rule of Daggerheart is to make the game your own. The rules included in this SRD are designed to help you enjoy the experience at the table, but everyone has a different approach to interpreting rules and telling stories. The rules should never get in the way of the story you want to tell, the characters you want to play, or the adventures you want to have. As long as your group agrees, everything can be adjusted to fit your play style. If there’s a rule you’d rather ignore or modify, feel free to implement any change with your table’s consent. 

RULINGS OVER RULES 

While playing Daggerheart, the GM and players should always prioritize rulings over rules. This SRD offers answers for many questions your table may have about the game, but it won’t answer all of them. When you’re in doubt about how a rule applies, the GM should make a ruling that aligns with the narrative. 

For example, Daggerheart has a weapon called a grappler that lets you pull a target close to you. If you try to use it to pull an entire castle, the weapon text doesn’t forbid you from doing that—but it doesn’t make sense within the narrative. Instead, the GM might rule that you pull a few bricks out, or pull yourself toward the wall instead. 

Similarly, if your character does something that would logically result in immediate death—such as diving into an active volcano without protection—you might not get to make one of Daggerheart’s death moves, which normally give you control of your character’s fate in their final moments. This kind of consequence should be made clear before the action is completed, and it should always follow the logic of the world. 

As a narrative-focused game, Daggerheart is not a place where technical, out-of-context interpretations of the rules are encouraged. Everything should flow back to the fiction, and the GM has the authority and responsibility to make rulings about how rules are applied to underscore that fiction. 

 CHARACTER CREATION 

Unless their table chooses to use pre-generated characters, each player creates their own PC by making a series of guided choices. Some of these decisions are purely narrative, meaning they only appear in or affect the game through roleplaying, but others are mechanical choices that affect the things their PC is able to do and which actions they’re more (or less) likely to succeed at when making moves and taking action. 

Note: You can fill in your character’s name, pronouns, and Character Description details at any point of the character creation process. 

STEP 1 

Choose a Class and Subclass. Classes are role-based archetypes that determine which class features and domain cards a PC gains access to throughout the campaign. There are nine classes in this SRD: Bard, Druid, Guardian, Ranger, Rogue, Seraph, Sorcerer, Warrior, Wizard. 

• Select a class and take its corresponding character sheet and character guide printouts. These sheets are for recording your PC’s details; you’ll update and reference them throughout the campaign. • Every class begins with one or more unique class feature(s), described at the bottom left of each class’s character sheet. If your class feature prompts you to make a selection, do so now. • Choose a Subclass Subclasses further refine a class archetype and reinforce its expression by granting access to unique subclass features. Each class comprises two subclasses. Select one of your class’s subclasses and take its Foundation card. STEP 2 

Choose Your Heritage. Your character’s heritage combines two elements: ancestry and community. 

• A character’s ancestry represents their species or lineage; it grants them certain physical traits and two unique ancestry features. Take the card for one of the following ancestries, then write its name in the Heritage field of your character sheet: Clank, Drakona, Dwarf, Elf, Faerie, Faun, Firbolg, Fungril, Galapa, Giant, Goblin, Halfling, Human, Infernis, Katari, Orc, Ribbet, Simiah. To create a Mixed Ancestry, take the top (first-listed) ancestry feature from one ancestry and the bottom (second-listed) ancestry feature from another. • Your character’s community represents their culture or environment of origin and grants them a community feature. Take the card for one of the following communities, then write its name in the Heritage field of your character sheet: Highborne, Loreborne, Orderborne, Ridgeborne, Seaborne, Slyborne, Underborne, Wanderborne, Wildborne. STEP 3 

Assign Character Traits. 

Your character has six traits that represent their physical, mental, and social aptitude: 

• Agility (Use it to Sprint, Leap, Maneuver,etc.) A high Agility means you’re fast on your feet, nimble on difficult terrain, and quick to react to danger. You’ll make an Agility Roll to scurry up a rope, sprint to cover, or bound from rooftop to rooftop. • Strength (Use it to Lift, Smash, Grapple, etc.) A high Strength means you’re better at feats that test your physical prowess and stamina. You’ll make a Strength Roll to break through a door, lift heavy objects, or hold your ground against a charging foe. • Finesse (Use it to Control, Hide, Tinker, etc.) A high Finesse means you’re skilled at tasks that require accuracy, stealth, or the utmost control. You’ll make a Finesse Roll to use fine tools, escape notice, or strike with precision. • Instinct (Use it to Perceive, Sense, Navigate, etc.) A high Instinct means you have a keen sense of your surroundings and a natural intuition. You’ll make an Instinct Roll to sense danger, notice details in the world around you, or track an elusive foe. • Presence (Use it to Charm, Perform, Deceive, etc.) A high Presence means you have a strong force of personality and a facility for social situations. You’ll make a Presence Roll to plead your case, intimidate a foe, or capture the attention of a crowd. • Knowledge (Use it to Recall, Analyze, Comprehend, etc.) A high Knowledge means you know information others don’t and understand how to apply your mind through deduction and inference. You’ll make a Knowledge Roll to interpret facts, see the patterns clearly, or remember important information. When you “roll with a trait,” that trait’s modifier is added to the roll’s total. Assign the modifiers +2, +1, +1, +0, +0, -1 to your character’s traits in any order you wish. 

STEP 4 

Record Additional Character Information. 

• Characters start a new campaign at Level 1. Record your level in the designated space at the top of your character sheet. • Evasion represents your character’s ability to avoid damage. Your character’s starting Evasion is determined by their class and appears directly beneath the Evasion field on your character sheet; copy this number into the Evasion field. • Hit Points (HP) are an abstract measure of your physical health. Your starting HP is determined by your class and is recorded on your character sheet.  • Stress reflects your ability to withstand the mental and emotional strain of dangerous situations and physical exertion. Every PC starts with 6 Stress slots. • Hope is a metacurrency that fuels special moves and certain abilities or features. All PCs start with 2 Hope; mark these in the Hope field of your character sheet. STEP 5 

Choose Your Starting Equipment 

Choose your weapon(s): 

• Select from the Tier 1 Weapon Tables. Either a two- handed primary weapon or a one-handed primary weapon and a one-handed secondary weapon.Then equip your selection by recording it in the Active Weapon field of your character sheet. • At Level 1, your Proficiency is 1; write this number in the Proficiency field on your character sheet, then calculate and record your damage roll by combining your Proficiency value with your equipped weapon(s) damage dice. Example: If your Proficiency is 1 and your weapon’s damage dice is d6+1, your damage roll is 1d6+1. Proficiency only determines how many damage dice you roll, and does not affect any flat damage modifiers. 

Choose and equip one set of armor from the Tier 1 Armor Table, then record its details in the Active Armor field of your character sheet. 

• Add your character’s level to your equipped armor’s Base Thresholds and record the total for both numbers in the corresponding fields. At character creation, your level is 1. • Record your Armor Score in the field at the top left of your character sheet. Your Armor Score is equal to your equipped armor’s Base Score plus any permanent bonuses your character has to their Armor Score from other abilities, features, or effects. Add the following items to the Inventory fields on your character sheet: 

• A torch, 50 feet of rope, basic supplies, and a handful of gold (mark one box in the left-hand column of your character sheet titled “Gold > Handfuls”) • EITHER a Minor Health Potion (clear 1d4 Hit Points) OR a Minor Stamina Potion (clear 1d4 Stress) • One of the class-specific items listed on your character guide • If applicable, whichever class-specific item you selected to carry your spells • Any other GM-approved items you’d like to have at the start of the game STEP 6 

Create Your Background. Develop your character’s background by answering the background questions in your character guide, modifying or replacing them if they don’t fit the character you want to play. 

Note: Your background has no explicit mechanical effect, but it greatly affects the character you’ll play and the prep the GM will do. Throughout character creation, you can adjust choices you made in earlier steps to better reflect this background as your character takes shape. If you wish, you can leave your character’s past more ambiguous for the time being and discover their backstory through play. 

STEP 7 

Create Your Experiences. 

An Experience is a word or phrase used to encapsulate a specific set of skills, personality traits, or aptitudes your character has acquired over the course of their life. When your PC makes a move, they can spend a Hope to add a relevant Experience’s modifier to the action roll. 

• Your PC gets two Experiences at character creation, each with a +2 modifier. • There’s no set list of Experiences to choose from, but an Experience can’t be too broadly applicable and it can’t grant your character specific mechanical benefits, such as magic spells or special abilities. For example, “Lucky” and “Highly Skilled” are too broad, because they could be applied to virtually any roll. Likewise, “Supersonic Flight” and “Invulnerable” imply game-breaking special abilities. EXAMPLE EXPERIENCES 

Backgrounds: Assassin, Blacksmith, Bodyguard, Bounty Hunter, Chef to the Royal Family, Circus Performer, Con Artist, Fallen Monarch, Field Medic, High Priestess, Merchant, Noble, Pirate, Politician, Runaway, Scholar, Sellsword, Soldier, Storyteller, Thief, World Traveler 

Characteristics: Affable, Battle-Hardened, Bookworm, Charming, Cowardly, Friend to All, Helpful, Intimidating Presence, Leader, Lone Wolf, Loyal, Observant, Prankster, Silver Tongue, Sticky Fingers, Stubborn to a Fault, Survivor, Young and Naive 

Specialties: Acrobat, Gambler, Healer, Inventor, Magical Historian, Mapmaker, Master of Disguise, Navigator, Sharpshooter, Survivalist, Swashbuckler, Tactician 

Skills: Animal Whisperer, Barter, Deadly Aim, Fast Learner, Incredible Strength, Liar, Light Feet, Negotiator, Photographic Memory, Quick Hands, Repair, Scavenger, Tracker 

Phrases: Catch Me If You Can, Fake It Till You Make It, First Time’s the Charm, Hold the Line, I Won’t Let You Down, I’ll Catch You, I’ve Got Your Back, Knowledge Is Power, Nature’s Friend, Never Again, No One Left Behind, Pick on Someone Your Own Size, The Show Must Go On, This Is Not a Negotiation, Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing 

 STEP 8 

Choose Domain Cards. 

Your class has access to two of the nine Domains included in the core set. Choose two cards from your class’s domains, which are listed in the upper left of your character sheet. You can take one card from each domain or two from a single domain, whichever you prefer. 

STEP 9 

Create Your Connections. 

Connections are the relationships between the PCs. To create connections, follow these steps: 

• Go around the table and have each player describe their characters to one another—at a minimum, their name, pronouns, character description, experiences, and the answers to their background questions. • Discuss potential connections between the PCs using the questions included in the “Connections” section of your character guide as inspiration. • Suggest at least one connection between your character and each other player’s PC. Accept any suggested connections you want to explore, reject any you don’t. Note: A player can reject a suggested connection for any reason, and it’s okay if there isn’t an established connection between every pair of PCs—you can always discover and develop those relationships through play. 

 CORE MATERIALS 

DOMAINS 

The Daggerheart core set includes 9 Domain Decks, each comprising a collection of cards granting features or special abilities expressing a particular theme. 

The 9 Domains are: 

ARCANA 

Arcana is the domain of innate and instinctual magic. Those who choose this path tap into the raw, enigmatic forces of the realms to manipulate both their own energy and the elements. Arcana offers wielders a volatile power, but it is incredibly potent when correctly channeled. The Arcana domain can be accessed by the Druid and Sorcerer classes. 

BLADE 

Blade is the domain of weapon mastery. Whether by steel, bow, or perhaps a more specialized arm, those who follow this path have the skill to cut short the lives of others. Wielders of Blade dedicate themselves to achieving inexorable power over death. The Blade domain can be accessed by the Guardian and Warrior classes. 

BONE 

Bone is the domain of tactics and the body. Practitioners of this domain have an uncanny control over their own physical abilities and an eye for predicting the behaviors of others in combat. Adherents to Bone gain an unparalleled understanding of bodies and their movements. The Bone domain can be accessed by the Ranger & Warrior classes. 

CODEX 

Codex is the domain of intensive magical study. Those who seek magical knowledge turn to the equations of power recorded in books, written on scrolls, etched into walls, or tattooed on bodies. Codex offers a commanding and versatile understanding of magic to devotees who pursue knowledge beyond the boundaries of common wisdom. The Codex domain can be accessed by the Bard and Wizard classes. 

GRACE 

Grace is the domain of charisma. Through rapturous storytelling, charming spells, or a shroud of lies, those who channel this power define the realities of their adversaries, bending perception to their will. Grace offers its wielders raw magnetism and mastery over language. The Grace domain can be accessed by the Bard and Rogue classes 

MIDNIGHT 

Midnight is the domain of shadows and secrecy. Whether by clever tricks, deft magic, or the cloak of night, those who channel these forces practice the art of obscurity and can uncover sequestered treasures. Midnight offers practitioners the power to control and create enigmas. The Midnight domain can be access by the Rogue and Sorcerer classes. 

SAGE 

Sage is the domain of the natural world. Those who walk this path tap into the unfettered power of the earth and its creatures to unleash raw magic. Sage grants its adherents the vitality of a blooming flower and the ferocity of a ravenous predator. The Sage domain can be accessed by the Druid and Ranger classes. 

SPLENDOR 

Splendor is the domain of life. Through this magic, followers gain the ability to heal and, to an extent, control death. Splendor offers its disciples the magnificent ability to both give and end life. The Splendor domain can be accessed by the Seraph and Wizard classes. 

VALOR 

Valor is the domain of protection. Whether through attack or defense, those who choose this discipline channel formidable strength to protect their allies in battle. Valor offers great power to those who raise their shields in defense of others. The Valor domain can be accessed by the Guardian and Seraph classes. 

Class Domains 

Each class grants access to two domains: 

• Bard: Codex & Grace • Druid: Arcana & Sage • Guardian: Blade & Valor • Ranger: Bone & Sage • Rogue: Grace & Midnight • Seraph: Splendor & Valor • Sorcerer: Arcana & Midnight • Warrior: Blade & Bone • Wizard: Codex & Splendor PCs acquire two 1st-level domain cards at character creation and an additional domain card at or below their level each time they level up. 

 DOMAIN CARDS 

Each domain card provides one or more features your PC can utilize during their adventures. Some domain cards provide moves you can make, such as a unique attack or a spell. Others offer passive effects, new downtime or social encounter abilities, or one-time benefits. 

DOMAIN CARD ANATOMY Each domain card includes six elements: 

Level 

The number in the top left of the card indicates the card’s level. You cannot acquire a domain card with a level higher than your PC’s. 

Domain 

Beneath the card’s level there is a symbol indicating its domain. You can only choose cards from your class’s two domains. 

Recall Cost 

The number and lightning bolt in the top right of the card shows its Recall Cost. This is the amount of Stress a player must mark to swap this card from their vault with a card from their loadout. 

Note: A player can swap domain cards during downtime without paying the domain card’s Recall Cost. 

Title 

The name of the card. 

Type The card’s type is listed in the center above the title. There are three types of domain cards: abilities, spells, and grimoires. Abilities are typically non-magical in nature, while spells are magical. Grimoires are unique to the Codex domain and grant access to a collection of less potent spells. Some game mechanics only apply to certain types of cards. 

Feature 

The text on the bottom half of the card describes its feature(s), including any special rules you need to follow when you use that card. 

LOADOUT & VAULT Your loadout is the set of acquired domain cards whose effects your PC can use during play. You can have up to 5 domain cards in your loadout at one time. Once you’ve acquired six or more domain cards, you must choose five to keep in your loadout; the rest are considered to be in your vault. Vault cards are inactive and do not influence play 

Note: Your subclass, ancestry, and community cards don’t count toward your loadout or vault and are always active and available. 

At the start of a rest, before using downtime moves, you can freely move cards between your loadout and your vault, so long as your loadout doesn’t exceed its five-card maximum. 

To move a card from your vault to your loadout at any other time, you must mark a number of Stress equal to the vaulted 

card’s Recall Cost (located in the top right of the card next to the lightning bolt symbol). If your loadout is already full, you must also move a card from your loadout to your vault to make space, though you can do this at no cost. 

When you gain a new domain card at level-up, you can immediately move it into your loadout for free. If your loadout is already full, you must also move a card from your loadout to your vault to make space. 

USAGE LIMITS If a domain card restricts how often it can be used, you can track such limits with whatever method you prefer, such as turning the card sideways, flipping it facedown, or using tokens. 

Note: if an effect or ability gives you a number of uses equal to a trait with a modifier of +0 or less, it grants you 0 uses. 

CLASSES 

A class is a role-based archetype that determines a PC’s: 

• Access to Domains: Each class grants access to two domains; players choose cards from these domains during character creation and when leveling up. • Starting Evasion and Hit Points (HP) • Starting Items • Class Feature(s) • Class Hope Feature, a class feature that costs 3 Hope to activate. There are 9 classes in the Daggerheart core materials: Bard, Druid, Guardian, Ranger, Rogue, Seraph, Sorcerer, Warrior, and Wizard. 

SUBCLASSES 

Each class is divided into two subclasses, each of which further defines and highlights one aspect of its class archetype. Your chosen subclass grants the following: 

• Spellcast Trait: the trait used on all Spellcast rolls. • Foundation Feature: a unique starting feature that establishes the identity and strengths of the subclass. • Specialization Feature: an advanced feature that can be gained on level up. For some subclasses, the specialization feature grants a new ability; for others, it expands or enhances a feature you already acquired through a class or subclass. • Mastery Feature: The mastery feature is a subclass’s most powerful feature, which can be gained at higher levels. For some subclasses, the mastery feature unlocks an extraordinary new ability; for others, it’s the impressive culmination of their subclass’s core feature. The Daggerheart core set includes cards detailing each foundation, specialization, and mastery feature. When you acquire one of these features, take its card for use as a reference during play. 

 BARD BARD Bards are the most charismatic people in all the realms. Members of this class are masters of captivation and specialize in a variety of performance types, including singing, playing musical instruments, weaving tales, or telling jokes. Whether performing for an audience or speaking to an individual, bards thrive in social situations. Members of this profession bond and train at schools or guilds, but a current of egotism runs through those of the bardic persuasion. While they may be the most likely class to bring people together, a bard of ill temper can just as easily tear a party apart. 

DOMAINS -Grace & Codex 

STARTING EVASION - 10 STARTING HIT POINTS - 5 

CLASS ITEMS - A romance novel or a letter never opened 

BARD’S HOPE FEATURE Make a Scene: Spend 3 Hope to temporarily Distract a target within Close range, giving them a -2 penalty to their Difficulty. 

CLASS FEATURE Rally: Once per session, describe how you rally the party and give yourself and each of your allies a Rally Die. At level 1, your Rally Die is a d6. A PC can spend their Rally Die to roll it, adding the result to their action roll, reaction roll, damage roll, or to clear a number of Stress equal to the result. At the end of each session, clear all unspent Rally Dice. At level 5, your Rally Die increases to a d8. 

BARD SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Troubadour or Wordsmith subclass. 

TROUBADOUR 

Play the Troubadour if you want to play music to bolster your allies. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Presence 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Gifted Performer: You can play three different types of songs, once each per long rest; describe how you perform for others to gain the listed benefit: 

• Relaxing Song: You and all allies within Close range clear a Hit Point. • Epic Song: Make a target within Close range temporarily Vulnerable. 

• Heartbreaking Song: You and all allies within Close range gain a Hope. SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Maestro. Your rallying songs steel the courage of those who listen. When you give a Rally Die to an ally, they can gain a Hope or clear a Stress. 

MASTERYFEATURE Virtuoso. You are among the greatest of your craft and your skill is boundless. You can perform each of your “Gifted Performer” feature’s songs twice per long rest. 

WORDSMITH 

Play the Wordsmith if you want to use clever wordplay and captivate crowds. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Presence 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Rousing Speech: Once per long rest, you can give a heartfelt, inspiring speech. All allies within Far range clear 2 Stress. 

Heart of a Poet: After you make an action roll to impress, persuade, or offend someone, you can spend a Hope to add a d4 to the roll. 

 SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Eloquent. Your moving words boost morale. Once per session, when you encourage an ally, you can do one of the following: 

• Allow them to find a mundane object or tool they need. • Help an Ally without spending Hope. • Give them an additional downtime move during their next rest. MASTERYFEATURE Epic Poetry. Your Rally Die increases to a d10. Additionally, when you Help an Ally, you can narrate the moment as if you were writing the tale of their heroism in a memoir. When you do, roll a d10 as your advantage die. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• Who from your community taught you to have such confidence in yourself? • You were in love once. Who did you adore, and how did they hurt you? • You’ve always looked up to another bard. Who are they, and why do you idolize them? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• What made you realize we were going to be such good friends? • What do I do that annoys you? • Why do you grab my hand at night? DRUID Becoming a druid is more than an occupation; it’s a calling for those who wish to learn from and protect the magic of the wilderness. While one might underestimate a gentle druid who practices the often-quiet work of cultivating flora, druids who channel the untamed forces of nature are terrifying to behold. Druids cultivate their abilities in small groups, often connected by a specific ethos or locale, but some choose to work alone. Through years of study and dedication, druids can learn to transform into beasts and shape nature itself. 

DOMAINS -Sage & Arcana STARTING EVASION - 10 STARTING HIT POINTS - 6 CLASS ITEMS - A small bag of rocks and bones or a 

strange pendant found in the dirt 

DRUID’S HOPE FEATURE 

Evolution: Spend 3 Hope to transform into a Beastform without marking a Stress. When you do, choose one trait to raise by +1 until you drop out of that Beastform. 

CLASS FEATURES 

Beastform: Mark a Stress to magically transform into a creature of your tier or lower from the Beastform list. You can drop out of this form at any time. While transformed, you can’t use weapons or cast spells from domain cards, but you can still use other features or abilities you have access to. Spells you cast before you transform stay active and last for their normal duration, and you can talk and communicate as normal. Additionally, you gain the Beastform’s features, add their Evasion bonus to your Evasion, and use the trait specified in their statistics for your attack. While you’re in a Beastform, your armor becomes part of your body and you mark Armor Slots as usual; when you drop out of a Beastform, those marked Armor Slots remain marked. If you mark your last Hit Point, you automatically drop out of this form. 

Wildtouch: You can perform harmless, subtle effects that involve nature—such as causing a flower to rapidly grow, summoning a slight gust of wind, or starting a campfire— at will. 

 DRUID SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Warden of the Elements or Warden of Renewal subclass. 

WARDEN OF THE ELEMENTS 

Play the Warden of the Elements if you want to embody the natural elements of the wild. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Instinct 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Elemental Incarnation: Mark a Stress to Channel one of the following elements until you take Severe damage or until your next rest: 

• Fire: When an adversary within Melee range deals damage to you, they take 1d10 magic damage. • Earth: Gain a bonus to your damage thresholds equal to your Proficiency. • Water: When you deal damage to an adversary within Melee range, all other adversaries within Very Close range must mark a Stress. • Air: You can hover, gaining advantage on Agility Rolls. SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Elemental Aura: Once per rest while Channeling, you can assume an aura matching your element. The aura affects targets within Close range until your Channeling ends. 

• Fire: When an adversary marks 1 or more Hit Points, they must also mark a Stress. • Earth: Your allies gain a +1 bonus to Strength. • Water: When an adversary deals damage to you, you can mark a Stress to move them anywhere within Very Close range of where they are. • Air: When you or an ally takes damage from an attack beyond Melee range, reduce the damage by 1d8. MASTERYFEATURE Elemental Dominion: You further embody your element. While Channeling, you gain the following benefit: 

• Fire: You gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for attacks and spells that deal damage. • Earth: When you would mark Hit Points, roll a d6 per Hit Point marked. For each result of 6, reduce the number of Hit Points you mark by 1. • Water: When an attack against you succeeds, you can mark a Stress to make the attacker temporarily Vulnerable. • Air: You gain a +1 bonus to your Evasion and can fly. WARDEN OF RENEWAL 

Play the Warden of Renewal if you want to use powerful magic to heal your party. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Instinct 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Clarity of Nature: Once per long rest, you can create a space of natural serenity within Close range. When you spend a few minutes resting within the space, clear Stress equal to your Instinct, distributed as you choose between you and your allies. 

Regeneration: Touch a creature and spend 3 Hope. That 

creature clears 1d4 Hit Points. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURES Regenerative Reach: You can target creatures within Very Close range with your “Regeneration” feature. 

Warden’s Protection: Once per long rest, spend 2 Hope to clear 2 Hit Points on 1d4 allies within Close range. 

MASTERYFEATURE Defender: Your animal transformation embodies a healing guardian spirit. When you’re in Beastform and an ally within Close range marks 2 or more Hit Points, you can mark a Stress to reduce the number of Hit Points they mark by 1. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• Why was the community you grew up in so reliant on nature and its creatures? • Who was the first wild animal you bonded with? Why did your bond end? • Who has been trying to hunt you down? What do they want from you? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• What did you confide in me that makes me leap into danger for you every time? • What animal do I say you remind me of? • What affectionate nickname have you given me?  BEASTFORM OPTIONS 

When you use your “Beastform” feature, choose a creature category of your tier or lower. At the GM’s discretion, you can describe yourself transforming into any animal that reasonably fits into that category. 

Beastform categories are divided by tier. Each entry includes the following details: 

• Creature Category: Each category’s name describes the common role or behavior of creatures in that category (such as Agile Scout). This name is followed by a few examples of animals that fit in that category (in this example, fox, mouse, and weasel). • Character Trait: While transformed, you gain a bonus to the listed trait. For example, while transformed into an Agile Scout, you gain a +1 bonus to your Agility. When this form drops, you lose this bonus. • Attack Rolls: When you make an attack while transformed, you use the creature’s listed range, trait, and damage dice, but you use your Proficiency. For example, as an Agile Scout, you can attack a target within Melee range using your Agility. On a success, you deal d4 physical damage using your Proficiency. • Evasion: While transformed, you add the creature’s Evasion bonus to your normal Evasion. For example, if your Evasion is usually 8 and your Beastform says “Evasion +2,” your Evasion becomes 10 while you’re in that form. • Advantages: Your form makes you especially suited to certain actions. When you make an action or reaction roll related to one of the verbs listed for that creature category, you gain advantage on that roll. For example, an Agile Scout gains advantage on rolls made to sneak around, search for objects or creatures, and related activities. • Features: Each form includes unique features. For example, an Agile Scout excels at silent, dexterous movement—but they’re also fragile, making you more likely to drop out of Beastform. TIER 1 

AGILE SCOUT (Fox, Mouse, Weasel, etc.) 

Agility +1 | Evasion +2 Melee Agility d4 phy 

Gain advantage on: deceive, locate, sneak 

Agile: Your movement is silent, and you can spend a Hope to move up to Far range without rolling. 

Fragile: When you take Major or greater damage, you drop out of Beastform. 

HOUSEHOLD FRIEND (Cat, Dog, Rabbit, etc.) 

Instinct +1 | Evasion +2 Melee Instinct d6 phy 

Gain advantage on: climb, locate, protect 

Companion: When you Help an Ally, you can roll a d8 as your advantage die. 

Fragile: When you take Major or greater damage, you drop out of Beastform. 

NIMBLE GRAZER (Deer, Gazelle, Goat, etc.) 

Agility +1 | Evasion +3 Melee Agility d6 phy 

Gain advantage on: leap, sneak, sprint 

Elusive Prey: When an attack roll against you would succeed, you can mark a Stress and roll a d4. Add the result to your Evasion against this attack. 

Fragile: When you take Major or greater damage, you drop out of Beastform. 

PACK PREDATOR 

(Coyote, Hyena, Wolf, etc.) 

Strength +2 | Evasion +1 Melee Strength d8+2 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, sprint, track 

Hobbling Strike: When you succeed on an attack against a target within Melee range, you can mark a Stress to make the target temporarily Vulnerable. 

Pack Hunting: When you succeed on an attack against the same target as an ally who acts immediately before you, add a d8 to your damage roll. 

AQUATIC SCOUT (Eel, Fish, Octopus, etc.) 

Agility +1 | Evasion +2 Melee Agility d4 phy 

Gain advantage on: navigate, sneak, swim Aquatic: You can breathe and move naturally underwater. Fragile: When you take Major or greater damage, you drop out 

of Beastform. 

 STALKING ARACHNID (Tarantula, Wolf Spider, etc.) 

Finesse +1 | Evasion +2 Melee Finesse d6+1 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, climb, sneak 

Venomous Bite: When you succeed on an attack against a target within Melee range, the target becomes temporarily Poisoned. A Poisoned creature takes 1d10 direct physical damage each time they act. 

Webslinger: You can create a strong web material useful for both adventuring and battle. The web is resilient enough to support one creature. You can temporarily Restrain a target within Close range by succeeding on a Finesse Roll against them. 

TIER 2 

ARMORED SENTRY (Armadillo, Pangolin, Turtle, etc.) 

Strength +1 | Evasion +1 Melee Strength d8+2 phy 

Gain advantage on: dig, locate, protect 

Armored Shell: Your hardened exterior gives you resistance to physical damage. Additionally, mark an Armor Slot to retract into your shell. While in your shell, physical damage is reduced by a number equal to your Armor Score (after applying resistance), but you can’t perform other actions without leaving this form. 

Cannonball: Mark a Stress to allow an ally to throw or launch you at an adversary. To do so, the ally makes an attack roll using Agility or Strength (their choice) against a target within Close range. On a success, the adversary takes d12+2 physical damage using the thrower’s Proficiency. You can spend a Hope to target an additional adversary within Very Close range of the first. The second target takes half the damage dealt to the first target. 

POWERFUL BEAST 

(Bear, Bull, Moose, etc.) 

Strength +1 | Evasion +3 Melee Strength d10+4 phy 

Gain advantage on: navigate, protect, scare 

Rampage: When you roll a 1 on a damage die, you can roll a d10 and add the result to the damage roll. Additionally, before you make an attack roll, you can mark a Stress to gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for that attack. 

Thick Hide: You gain a +2 bonus to your damage thresholds. 

MIGHTYSTRIDER (Camel, Horse, Zebra, etc.) 

Agility +1 | Evasion +2 Melee Agility d8+1 phy 

Gain advantage on: leap, navigate, sprint 

Carrier: You can carry up to two willing allies with you when you move. 

Trample: Mark a Stress to move up to Close range in a straight line and make an attack against all targets within Melee range of the line. Targets you succeed against take d8+1 physical damage using your Proficiency and are temporarily Vulnerable. 

STRIKING SERPENT (Cobra, Rattlesnake, Viper, etc.) 

Finesse +1 | Evasion +2 Very Close Finesse d8+4 phy 

Gain advantage on: climb, deceive, sprint 

Venomous Strike: Make an attack against any number of targets within Very Close range. On a success, a target is temporarily Poisoned. A Poisoned creature takes 1d10 physical direct damage each time they act. 

Warning Hiss: Mark a Stress to force any number of targets within Melee range to move back to Very Close range. 

POUNCING PREDATOR (Cheetah, Lion, Panther, etc.) 

Instinct +1 | Evasion +3 Melee Instinct d8+6 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, climb, sneak 

Fleet: Spend a Hope to move up to Far range without rolling. 

Takedown: Mark a Stress to move into Melee range of a target and make an attack roll against them. On a success, you gain a +2 bonus to your Proficiency for this attack and the target must mark a Stress. 

WINGED BEAST (Hawk, Owl, Raven, etc.) 

Finesse +1 | Evasion +3 Melee Finesse d4+2 phy 

Gain advantage on: deceive, locate, scare 

Bird’s-Eye View: You can fly at will. Once per rest while you are airborne, you can ask the GM a question about the scene below you without needing to roll. The first time a character makes a roll to act on this information, they gain advantage on the roll. 

Hollow Bones: You gain a −2 penalty to your damage thresholds. 

 TIER 3 

GREATPREDATOR (Dire Wolf, Velociraptor, Sabertooth Tiger, etc.) 

Strength +2 | Evasion +2 Melee Strength d12+8 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, sneak, sprint 

Carrier: You can carry up to two willing allies with you when you move. 

Vicious Maul: When you succeed on an attack against a target, you can spend a Hope to make them temporarily Vulnerable and gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for this attack. 

MIGHTYLIZARD (Alligator, Crocodile, Gila Monster, etc.) 

Instinct +2 | Evasion +1 Melee Instinct d10+7 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, sneak, track 

Physical Defense: You gain a +3 bonus to your damage thresholds. 

Snapping Strike: When you succeed on an attack against a target within Melee range, you can spend a Hope to clamp that opponent in your jaws, making them temporarily Restrained and Vulnerable. 

GREATWINGED BEAST (Giant Eagle, Falcon, etc.) 

Finesse +2 | Evasion +3 Melee Finesse d8+6 phy 

Gain advantage on: deceive, distract, locate 

Bird’s-Eye View: You can fly at will. Once per rest while you are airborne, you can ask the GM a question about the scene below you without needing to roll. The first time a character makes a roll to act on this information, they gain advantage on the roll. 

Carrier: You can carry up to two willing allies with you when you move. 

AQUATIC PREDATOR 

(Dolphin, Orca, Shark, etc.) 

Agility +2 | Evasion +4 Melee Agility d10+6 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, swim, track 

Aquatic: You can breathe and move naturally underwater. 

Vicious Maul: When you succeed on an attack against a target, you can spend a Hope to make them Vulnerable and gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for this attack. 

LEGENDARYBEAST (Upgraded Tier 1 Options) 

Evolved: Pick a Tier 1 Beastform option and become a larger, more powerful version of that creature. While you’re in this form, you retain all traits and features from the original form and gain the following bonuses: 

• A +6 bonus to damage rolls • A +1 bonus to the trait used • by this form • A +2 bonus to Evasion LEGENDARYHYBRID (Griffon, Sphinx, etc.) 

Strength +2 | Evasion +3 Melee Strength d10+8 

Hybrid Features: To transform into this creature, mark an additional Stress. Choose any two Beastform options from Tiers 1–2. Choose a total of four advantages and two features from those options. 

TIER 4 

MASSIVE BEHEMOTH (Elephant, Mammoth, Rhinoceros, etc.) 

Strength +3 | Evasion +1 Melee Strength d12+12 phy 

Gain advantage on: locate, protect, scare, sprint 

Carrier: You can carry up to four willing allies with you when you move. 

Demolish: Spend a Hope to move up to Far range in a straight line and make an attack against all targets within Melee range of the line. Targets you succeed against take d8+10 physical damage using your Proficiency and are temporarily Vulnerable. 

Undaunted: You gain a +2 bonus to all your damage thresholds. 

TERRIBLE LIZARD (Brachiosaurus, Tyrannosaurus, etc.) 

Strength +3 | Evasion +2 Melee Strength d12+10 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, deceive, scare, track 

Devastating Strikes: When you deal Severe damage to a target within Melee range, you can mark a Stress to force them to mark an additional Hit Point. 

Massive Stride: You can move up to Far range without rolling. You ignore rough terain (at the GM’s discretion) due to your size. 

 MYTHIC AERIAL HUNTER (Dragon, Pterodactyl, Roc, Wyvern, etc.) 

Finesse +3 | Evasion +4 Melee Finesse d10+11 phy 

Gain advantage on: attack, deceive, locate, navigate 

Carrier: You can carry up to three willing allies with you when you move. 

Deadly Raptor: You can fly at will and move up to Far range as part of your action. When you move in a straight line into Melee range of a target from at least Close range and make an attack against that target in the same action, you can reroll all damage dice that rolled a result lower than your Proficiency. 

EPIC AQUATIC BEAST (Giant Squid, Whale, etc.) 

Agility +3 | Evasion +3 Melee Agility d10+10 phy 

Gain advantage on: locate, protect, scare, track 

Ocean Master: You can breathe and move naturally underwater. When you succeed on an attack against a target within Melee range, you can temporarily Restrain them. 

Unyielding: When you would mark an Armor Slot, roll a d6. On a result of 5 or higher, reduce the severity by one threshold without marking an Armor Slot. 

MYTHIC BEAST 

(Upgraded Tier 1 or Tier 2 Options) 

Evolved: Pick a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Beastform option and become a larger, more powerful version of that creature. While you’re in this form, you retain all traits and features from the original form and gain the following bonuses: 

• A +9 bonus to damage rolls • A +2 bonus to the trait used by this form • A +3 bonus to Evasion • Your damage die increases by one size (d6 becomes d8, d8 becomes d10, etc.) MYTHIC HYBRID (Chimera, Cockatrice, Manticore, etc.) 

Strength +3 | Evasion +2 Strength Melee d12+10 phy 

Hybrid Features: To transform into this creature, mark 2 additional Stress. Choose any three Beastform options from Tiers 1-3. Choose a total of five advantages and three features from those options. 

GUARDIAN The title of guardian represents an array of martial professions, speaking more to their moral compass and unshakeable fortitude than the means by which they fight. While many guardians join groups of militants for either a country or cause, they’re more likely to follow those few they truly care for, majority be damned. Guardians are known for fighting with remarkable ferocity even against overwhelming odds, defending their cohort above all else. Woe betide those who harm the ally of a guardian, as the guardian will answer this injury in kind. 

DOMAINS -Valor and Blade 

STARTING EVASION - 9 STARTING HIT POINTS - 7 

CLASS ITEMS - A totem from your mentor or a secret key 

GUARDIAN’S HOPE FEATURE Frontline Tank: Spend 3 Hope to clear 2 Armor Slots. CLASS FEATURE Unstoppable: Once per long rest, you can become Unstoppable. You gain an Unstoppable Die. At level 1, your Unstoppable Die is a d4. Place it on your character sheet in the space provided, starting with the 1 value facing up. After you make a damage roll that deals 1 or more Hit Points to a target, increase the Unstoppable Die value by one. When the die’s value would exceed its maximum value or when the scene ends, remove the die and drop out of Unstoppable. At level 5, your Unstoppable Die increases to a d6. 

While Unstoppable, you gain the following benefits: 

• You reduce the severity of physical damage by one threshold (Severe to Major, Major to Minor, Minor to None). • You add the current value of the Unstoppable Die to your damage roll. • You can’t be Restrained or Vulnerable. Tip: If your Unstoppable Die is a d4 and the 4 is currently facing up, you remove the die the next time you would increase it. However, if your Unstoppable Die has increased to a d6 and the 4 is currently facing up, you’ll turn it to 5 the next time you would increase it. In this case, you’ll remove the die after you would need to increase it higher than 6. 

 GUARDIAN SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Stalwart or Vengeance subclass. 

STALWART 

Play the Stalwart if you want to take heavy blows and keep fighting. 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Unwavering: Gain a permanent +1 bonus to your damage thresholds. 

Iron Will: When you take physical damage, you can mark an additional Armor Slot to reduce the severity. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURES Unrelenting: Gain a permanent +2 bonus to your damage thresholds. 

Partners-in-Arms: When an ally within Very Close range takes damage, you can mark an Armor Slot to reduce the severity by one threshold. 

MASTERYFEATURES Undaunted: Gain a permanent +3 bonus to your damage thresholds. 

Loyal Protector: When an ally within Close range has 2 or fewer Hit Points and would take damage, you can mark a Stress to sprint to their side and take the damage instead. 

VENGEANCE 

Play the Vengeance if you want to strike down enemies who harm you or your allies. 

FOUNDATION FEATURES At Ease: Gain an additional Stress slot. 

Revenge: When an adversary within Melee range succeeds on an attack against you, you can mark 2 Stress to force the attacker to mark a Hit Point. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Act of Reprisal: When an adversary damages an ally within Melee range, you gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for the next successful attack you make against that adversary. 

MASTERYFEATURE Nemesis: Spend 2 Hope to Prioritize an adversary until your next rest. When you make an attack against your Prioritized adversary, you can swap the results of your Hope and Fear Dice. You can only Prioritize one adversary at a time. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• Who from your community did you fail to protect, and why do you still think of them? • You’ve been tasked with protecting something important and delivering it somewhere dangerous. What is it, and where does it need to go? • You consider an aspect of yourself to be a weakness. What is it, and how has it affected you? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• How did I save your life the first time we met? • What small gift did you give me that you notice I always carry with me? • What lie have you told me about yourself that I absolutely believe? RANGER Rangers are highly skilled hunters who, despite their martial abilities, rarely lend their skills to an army. Through mastery of the body and a deep understanding of the wilderness, rangers become sly tacticians, pursuing their quarry with cunning and patience. Many rangers track and fight alongside an animal companion with whom they’ve forged a powerful spiritual bond. By honing their skills in the wild, rangers become expert trackers, as likely to ensnare their foes in a trap as they are to assail them head-on. 

DOMAINS -Bone & Sage 

STARTING EVASION - 12 STARTING HIT POINTS - 6 

CLASS ITEMS - A trophy from your first kill or a seemingly broken compass 

RANGER’S HOPE FEATURE Hold Them Off: Spend 3 Hope when you succeed on an 

attack with a weapon to use that same roll against two 

additional adversaries within range of the attack. 

 CLASS FEATURE Ranger’s Focus: Spend a Hope and make an attack against a target. On a success, deal your attack’s normal damage and temporarily make the attack’s target your Focus. Until this feature ends or you make a different creature your Focus, you gain the following benefits against your Focus: 

• You know precisely what direction they are in. • When you deal damage to them, they must mark a Stress. • When you fail an attack against them, you can end your Ranger’s Focus feature to reroll your Duality Dice. RANGER SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Beastbound or Wayfinder subclass. 

BEASTBOUND 

Play the Beastbound if you want to form a deep bond with an animal ally. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Agility 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Companion: You have an animal companion of your choice (at the GM’s discretion). They stay by your side unless you tell them otherwise. 

Take the Ranger Companion sheet. When you level up your character, choose a level-up option for your companion from this sheet as well. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURES Expert Training: Choose an additional level-up option for 

your companion. 

Battle-Bonded: When an adversary attacks you while they’re within your companion’s Melee range, you gain a +2 bonus to your Evasion against the attack. 

MASTERYFEATURES Advanced Training: Choose two additional level-up options for your companion. 

Loyal Friend: Once per long rest, when the damage from an attack would mark your companion’s last Stress or your last Hit Point and you’re within Close range of each other, you or your companion can rush to the other’s side and take that damage instead. 

WAYFINDER 

Play the Wayfinder if you want to hunt your prey and strike with deadly force. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Agility 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Ruthless Predator: When you make a damage roll, you can mark a Stress to gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency. Additionally, when you deal Severe damage to an adversary, they must mark a Stress. 

Path Forward: When you’re traveling to a place you’ve previously visited or you carry an object that has been at the location before, you can identify the shortest, most direct path to your destination. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Elusive Predator: When your Focus makes an attack against you, you gain a +2 bonus to your Evasion against the attack. 

MASTERYFEATURE Apex Predator: Before you make an attack roll against your Focus, you can spend a Hope. On a successful attack, you remove a Fear from the GM’s Fear pool. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• A terrible creature hurt your community, and you’ve vowed to hunt them down. What are they, and what unique trail or sign do they leave behind? • Your first kill almost killed you, too. What was it, and what part of you was never the same after that event? • You’ve traveled many dangerous lands, but what is the one place you refuse to go? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• What friendly competition do we have? • Why do you act differently when we’re alone than when others are around? • What threat have you asked me to watch for, and why are you worried about it?  RANGER COMPANION 

When you choose the Beastbound Ranger subclass, take a companion sheet. This sheet is for tracking important information about your character’s companion and can be tucked beneath the right side of your character sheet for ease of viewing. 

STEP 1: NAME YOUR COMPANION 

Work with the GM to decide what kind of animal you have as your companion. Give them a name and add a picture of them to the companion sheet. 

STEP 2: WRITE THEIR EVASION 

Fill in their Evasion, which starts at 10. 

STEP 3: CHOOSE THEIR COMPANION EXPERIENCE 

Create two Experiences for your companion based on their training and the history you have together. 

Start with +2 in both Experiences. Whenever you gain a new Experience, your companion also gains one. All new Experiences start at +2. 

Example Companion Experiences 

Bold Distraction, Expert Climber, Fetch, Friendly, Guardian of the Forest, Horrifying, Intimidating, Loyal Until the End, Navigation, Nimble, Nobody Left Behind, On High Alert, Protective, Royal Companion, Scout, Service Animal, Trusted Mount, Vigilant, We Always Find Them, You Can’t Hit What You Can’t Find 

STEP 4: CHOOSE THEIR ATTACK AND RECORD DAMAGE DIE 

Finally, describe your companion’s method of dealing 

damage (their standard attack) and record it in the “Attack 

& Damage” section. At level 1, your companion’s damage 

die is a d6 and their range is Melee. 

WORKING WITH YOUR COMPANION 

The following sections will run you through the basics of working with your companion. 

USING SPELLCAST ROLLS, HOPE, AND EXPERIENCES 

Make a Spellcast Roll to connect with your companion and command them to take action. Spend a Hope to add an applicable Companion Experience to the roll. On a success with Hope, if your next action builds on their success, you gain advantage on the roll. 

ATTACKING WITH YOUR COMPANION 

When you command your companion to attack, they gain any benefits that would normally only apply to you (such as the effects of “Ranger’s Focus”). On a success, their damage roll uses your Proficiency and their damage die. 

TAKING DAMAGE AS STRESS 

• When your companion would take any amount of damage, they mark a Stress. When they mark their last Stress, they drop out of the scene (by hiding, fleeing, or a similar action). They remain unavailable until the start of your next long rest, where they return with 1 Stress cleared. • When you choose a downtime move that clears Stress on yourself, your companion clears an equal number of Stress. LEVELING UP YOUR COMPANION 

When your character levels up, choose one available option for your companion from the following list and mark it on your sheet: 

• Intelligent: Your companion gains a permanent +1 bonus to a Companion Experience of your choice. • Light in the Dark: Use this as an additional Hope slot your character can mark. • Creature Comfort: Once per rest, when you take time during a quiet moment to give your companion love and attention, you can gain a Hope or you can both clear a Stress. • Armored: When your companion takes damage, you can mark one of your Armor Slots instead of marking one of their Stress. • Vicious: Increase your companion’s damage dice or range by one step (d6 to d8, Close to Far, etc.). • Resilient: Your companion gains an additional Stress slot. • Bonded: When you mark your last Hit Point, your companion rushes to your side to comfort you. Roll a number of d6s equal to the unmarked Stress slots they have and mark them. If any roll a 6, your companion helps you up. Clear your last Hit Point and return to the scene. • Aware: Your companion gains a permanent +2 bonus to their Evasion.  ROGUE ROGUE Rogues are scoundrels, often in both attitude and practice. Broadly known as liars and thieves, the best among this class move through the world anonymously. Utilizing their sharp wits and blades, rogues trick their foes through social manipulation as easily as breaking locks, climbing through windows, or dealing underhanded blows. These masters of magical craft manipulate shadow and movement, adding an array of useful and deadly tools to their repertoire. Rogues frequently establish guilds to meet future accomplices, hire out jobs, and hone secret skills, proving that there’s honor among thieves for those who know where to look. 

DOMAINS -Midnight & Grace 

STARTING EVASION - 12 STARTING HIT POINTS - 6 

CLASS ITEMS - A set of forgery tools or a grappling hook 

ROGUE’S HOPE FEATURE Rogue’s Dodge: Spend 3 Hope to gain a +2 bonus to your Evasion until the next time an attack succeeds against you. Otherwise, this bonus lasts until your next rest. 

CLASS FEATURES Cloaked: Any time you would be Hidden, you are instead Cloaked. In addition to the benefits of the Hidden condition, while Cloaked you remain unseen if you are stationary when an adversary moves to where they would normally see you. After you make an attack or end a move within line of sight of an adversary, you are no longer Cloaked. 

Sneak Attack: When you succeed on an attack while Cloaked or while an ally is within Melee range of your target, add a number of d6s equal to your tier to your damage roll. 

• Level 1  Tier 1 • Levels 2–4  Tier 2 • Levels 5–7  Tier 3 • Levels 8–10  Tier 4 ROGUE SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Nightwalker or Syndicate subclass. 

NIGHTWALKER 

Play the Nightwalker if you want to manipulate shadows to maneuver through the environment. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Finesse 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Shadow Stepper: You can move from shadow to shadow. When you move into an area of darkness or a shadow cast by another creature or object, you can mark a Stress to disappear from where you are and reappear inside another shadow within Far range. When you reappear, you are 

Cloaked. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURES Dark Cloud: Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, create a temporary dark cloud that covers any area within Close range. Anyone in this cloud can’t see outside of it, and anyone outside of it can’t see in. You’re considered Cloaked from any adversary for whom the cloud blocks line of sight. 

Adrenaline: While you're Vulnerable, add your level to your damage rolls. 

MASTERYFEATURES Fleeting Shadow: Gain a permanent +1 bonus to your Evasion. You can use your “Shadow Stepper” feature to move within Very Far range. 

Vanishing Act: Mark a Stress to become Cloaked at any time. When Cloaked from this feature, you automatically clear the Restrained condition if you have it. You remain Cloaked in this way until you roll with Fear or until your next rest. 

 SYNDICATE 

Play the Syndicate if you want to have a web of contacts everywhere you go. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Finesse 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Well-Connected: When you arrive in a prominent town or environment, you know somebody who calls this place home. Give them a name, note how you think they could be useful, and choose one fact from the following list: 

• They owe me a favor, but they’ll be hard to find. • They’re going to ask for something in exchange. • They’re always in a great deal of trouble. • We used to be together. It’s a long story. • We didn’t part on great terms. SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Contacts Everywhere: Once per session, you can briefly call on a shady contact. Choose one of the following benefits and describe what brought them here to help you in this moment: 

• They provide 1 handful of gold, a unique tool, or a mundane object that the situation requires. • On your next action roll, their help provides a +3 bonus to the result of your Hope or Fear Die. • The next time you deal damage, they snipe from the shadows, adding 2d8 to your damage roll. MASTERYFEATURE Reliable Backup: You can use your “Contacts Everywhere” feature three times per session. The following options are added to the list of benefits you can choose from when you use that feature: 

• When you mark 1 or more Hit Points, they can rush out to shield you, reducing the Hit Points marked by 1. • When you make a Presence Roll in conversation, they back you up. You can roll a d20 as your Hope Die. BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• What did you get caught doing that got you exiled from your home community? • You used to have a different life, but you’ve tried to leave it behind. Who from you past is still chasing you? • Who from your past were you most sad to say goodbye to? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• What did I recently convince you to do that got us both in trouble? • What have I discovered about your past that I hold secret from the others? • Who do you know from my past, and how have they influenced your feelings about me? SERAPH Seraphs are divine fighters and healers imbued with sacred purpose. A wide array of deities exist within the realms, and thus numerous kinds of seraphs are appointed by these gods. Their ethos traditionally aligns with the domain or goals of their god, such as defending the weak, exacting vengeance, protecting a land or artifact, or upholding a particular faith. Some seraphs ally themselves with an army or locale, much to the satisfaction of their rulers, but other crusaders fight in opposition to the follies of the Mortal Realm. It is better to be a seraph’s ally than their enemy, as they are terrifying foes to those who defy their purpose. 

DOMAINS -Splendor & Valor 

STARTING EVASION - 9 STARTING HIT POINTS - 7 

CLASS ITEMS - A bundle of offerings or a sigil of your god 

SERAPH’S HOPE FEATURE Life Support: Spend 3 Hope to clear a Hit Point on an ally within Close range. 

CLASS FEATURE Prayer Dice: At the beginning of each session, roll a number of d4s equal to your subclass’s Spellcast trait and place them on your character sheet in the space provided. These are your Prayer Dice. You can spend any number of Prayer Dice to aid yourself or an ally within Far range. You can use a spent die’s value to reduce incoming damage, add to a roll’s result after the roll is made, or gain Hope equal to the result. At the end of each session, clear all unspent Prayer Dice. 

 SERAPH SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Divine Wielder or Winged Sentinel subclass. 

DIVINE WIELDER 

Play the Divine Wielder if you want to dominate the battlefield with a legendary weapon. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Strength 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Spirit Weapon: When you have an equipped weapon with a range of Melee or Very Close, it can fly from your hand to attack an adversary within Close range and then return to you. You can mark a Stress to target an additional adversary within range with the same attack roll. 

Sparing Touch: Once per long rest, touch a creature and clear 2 Hit Points or 2 Stress from them. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Devout: When you roll your Prayer Dice, you can roll an additional die and discard the lowest result. Additionally, you can use your “Sparing Touch” feature twice instead of once per long rest. 

MASTERYFEATURE Sacred Resonance: When you roll damage for your “Spirit Weapon” feature, if any of the die results match, double the value of each matching die. For example, if you roll two 5s, they count as two 10s. 

WINGED SENTINEL 

Play the Winged Sentinel if you want to take flight and strike crushing blows from the sky. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Strength 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Wings of Light: You can fly. While flying, you can do the following: 

• Mark a Stress to pick up and carry another willing creature approximately your size or smaller. • Spend a Hope to deal an extra 1d8 damage on a successful attack. SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Ethereal Visage: Your supernatural visage strikes awe and fear. While flying, you have advantage on Presence Rolls. When you succeed with Hope on a Presence Roll, you can remove a Fear from the GM’s Fear pool instead of gaining Hope. 

MASTERYFEATURES Ascendant: Gain a permanent +4 bonus to your Severe damage threshold. 

Power of the Gods: While flying, you deal an extra 1d12 damage instead of 1d8 from your “Wings of Light” feature. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• Which god did you devote yourself to? What incredible feat did they perform for you in a moment of desperation? • How did your appearance change after taking your oath? • In what strange or unique way do you communicate with your god? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• What promise did you make me agree to, should you die on the battlefield? • Why do you ask me so many questions about my god? • You’ve told me to protect one member of our party above all others, even yourself. Who are they and why?  SORCERER SORCERER Not all innate magic users choose to hone their craft, but those who do can become powerful sorcerers. The gifts of these wielders are passed down through families, even if the family is unaware of or reluctant to practice them. A sorcerer’s abilities can range from the elemental to the illusionary and beyond, and many practitioners band together into collectives based on their talents. The act of becoming a formidable sorcerer is not the practice of acquiring power, but learning to cultivate and control the power one already possesses. The magic of a misguided or undisciplined sorcerer is a dangerous force indeed. 

DOMAINS -Arcana & Midnight 

STARTING EVASION - 10 STARTING HIT POINTS - 6 

CLASS ITEMS - A whispering orb or a family heirloom 

SORCERER’S HOPE FEATURE Volatile Magic: Spend 3 Hope to reroll any number of your damage dice on an attack that deals magic damage. 

CLASS FEATURES Arcane Sense: You can sense the presence of magical people and objects within Close range. 

Minor Illusion: Make a Spellcast Roll (10). On a success, you create a minor visual illusion no larger than yourself within Close range. This illusion is convincing to anyone at Close range or farther. 

Channel Raw Power: Once per long rest, you can place a domain card from your loadout into your vault and choose to either: 

• Gain Hope equal to the level of the card. • Enhance a spell that deals damage, gaining a bonus to your damage roll equal to twice the level of the card. SORCERER SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Elemental Origin or Primal Origin subclass. 

ELEMENTAL ORIGIN 

Play the Elemental Origin if you want to channel raw magic to take the shape of a particular element. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Instinct 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Elementalist: Choose one of the following elements at 

character creation: air, earth, fire, lightning, water. 

You can shape this element into harmless effects. Additionally, spend a Hope and describe how your control over this element helps an action roll you’re about to make, then either gain a +2 bonus to the roll or a +3 bonus to the roll’s damage. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Natural Evasion: You can call forth your element to protect you from harm. When an attack roll against you succeeds, you can mark a Stress and describe how you use your element to defend you. When you do, roll a d6 and add its result to your Evasion against the attack. 

MASTERYFEATURE Transcendence: Once per long rest, you can transform into a physical manifestation of your element. When you do, describe your transformation and choose two of the following benefits to gain until your next rest: 

• +4 bonus to your Severe threshold • +1 bonus to a character trait of your choice • +1 bonus to your Proficiency • +2 bonus to your Evasion 

PRIMAL ORIGIN 

Play the Primal Origin if you want to extend the versatility of your spells in powerful ways. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Instinct 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Manipulate Magic: Your primal origin allows you to modify the essence of magic itself. After you cast a spell or make an attack using a weapon that deals magic damage, you can mark a Stress to do one of the following: 

• Extend the spell or attack’s reach by one range • Gain a +2 bonus to the action roll’s result • Double a damage die of your choice • Hit an additional target within range  SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Enchanted Aid: You can enhance the magic of others with your essence. When you Help an Ally with a Spellcast Roll, you can roll a d8 as your advantage die. Once per long rest, after an ally has made a Spellcast Roll with your help, you can swap the results of their Duality Dice. 

MASTERYFEATURE Arcane Charge: You can gather magical energy to enhance your capabilities. When you take magic damage, you become Charged. Alternatively, you can spend 2 Hope to become Charged. When you successfully make an attack that deals magic damage while Charged, you can clear your Charge to either gain a +10 bonus to the damage roll or gain a +3 bonus to the Difficulty of a reaction roll the spell causes the target to make. You stop being Charged at your next long rest. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• What did you do that made the people in your community wary of you? • What mentor taught you to control your untamed magic, and why are they no longer able to guide you? • You have a deep fear you hide from everyone. What is it, and why does it scare you? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• Why do you trust me so deeply? • What did I do that makes you cautious around me? • Why do we keep our shared past a secret? WARRIOR Becoming a warrior requires years, often a lifetime, of training and dedication to the mastery of weapons and violence. While many who seek to fight hone only their strength, warriors understand the importance of an agile body and mind, making them some of the most sought-after fighters across the realms. Frequently, warriors find employment within an army, a band of mercenaries, or even a royal guard, but their potential is wasted in any position where they cannot continue to improve and expand their skills. Warriors are known to have a favored weapon; to come between them and their blade would be a grievous mistake. 

DOMAINS -Blade & Bone 

STARTING EVASION - 11 STARTING HIT POINTS - 6 

CLASS ITEMS - The drawing of a lover or a sharpening stone 

WARRIOR’S HOPE FEATURE No Mercy: Spend 3 Hope to gain a +1 bonus to your attack rolls until your next rest. 

CLASS FEATURES Attack of Opportunity: If an adversary within Melee range attempts to leave that range, make a reaction roll using a trait of your choice against their Difficulty. Choose one effect on a success, or two if you critically succeed: 

• They can’t move from where they are. • You deal damage to them equal to your primary • weapon’s damage. • You move with them. Combat Training: You ignore burden when equipping weapons. When you deal physical damage, you gain a bonus to your damage roll equal to your level. 

 WARRIOR SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the Call of the Brave or Call of the Slayer subclass. 

CALL OF THE BRAVE 

Play the Call of the Brave if you want to use the might of your enemies to fuel your own power. 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Courage: When you fail a roll with Fear, you gain a Hope. 

Battle Ritual: Once per long rest, before you attempt something incredibly dangerous or face off against a foe who clearly outmatches you, describe what ritual you perform or preparations you make. When you do, clear 2 Stress and gain 2 Hope. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Rise to the Challenge: You are vigilant in the face of mounting danger. While you have 2 or fewer Hit Points unmarked, you can roll a d20 as your Hope Die. 

MASTERYFEATURE Camaraderie: Your unwavering bravery is a rallying point for your allies. You can initiate a Tag Team Roll one additional time per session. Additionally, when an ally initiates a Tag Team Roll with you, they only need to spend 2 Hope to do so. 

CALL OF THE SLAYER 

Play the Call of the Slayer if you want to strike down adversaries with immense force. 

FOUNDATION FEATURE Slayer: You gain a pool of dice called Slayer Dice. On a roll with Hope, you can place a d6 on this card instead of gaining a Hope, adding the die to the pool. You can store a number of Slayer Dice equal to your Proficiency. When you make an attack roll or damage roll, you can spend any number of these Slayer Dice, rolling them and adding their result to the roll. At the end of each session, clear any unspent Slayer Dice on this card and gain a Hope per die cleared. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURE Weapon Specialist: You can wield multiple weapons with dangerous ease. When you succeed on an attack, you can spend a Hope to add one of the damage dice from your secondary weapon to the damage roll. Additionally, once per long rest when you roll your Slayer Dice, reroll any 1s. 

MASTERYFEATURE Martial Preparation: You’re an inspirational warrior to all who travel with you. Your party gains access to the Martial Preparation downtime move. To use this move during a 

rest, describe how you instruct and train with your party. You and each ally who chooses this downtime move gain a d6 Slayer Die. A PC with a Slayer Die can spend it to roll the die and add the result to an attack or damage roll of their choice. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• Who taught you to fight, and why did they stay behind when you left home? • Somebody defeated you in battle years ago and left you to die. Who was it, and how did they betray you? • What legendary place have you always wanted to visit, and why is it so special? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• We knew each other long before this party came together. How? • What mundane task do you usually help me with off the battlefield? • What fear am I helping you overcome?  WIZARD WIZARD Whether through an institution or individual study, those known as wizards acquire and hone immense magical power over years of learning using a variety of tools, including books, stones, potions, and herbs. Some wizards dedicate their lives to mastering a particular school of magic, while others learn from a wide variety of disciplines. Many wizards become wise and powerful figures in their communities, advising rulers, providing medicines and healing, and even leading war councils. While these mages all work toward the common goal of collecting magical knowledge, wizards often have the most conflict within their own ranks, as the acquisition, keeping, and sharing of powerful secrets is a topic of intense debate that has resulted in innumerable deaths. 

DOMAINS -Codex & Splendor 

STARTING EVASION - 11 STARTING HIT POINTS - 5 

CLASS ITEMS - A book you’re trying to translate or a tiny, harmless elemental pet 

WIZARD’S HOPE FEATURE Not This Time: Spend 3 Hope to force an adversary within Far range to reroll an attack or damage roll. 

CLASS FEATURES Prestidigitation: You can perform harmless, subtle magical effects at will. For example, you can change an object’s color, create a smell, light a candle, cause a tiny object to float, illuminate a room, or repair a small object. 

Strange Patterns: Choose a number between 1 and 12. When you roll that number on a Duality Die, gain a Hope or clear a Stress. 

You can change this number when you take a long rest. 

WIZARD SUBCLASSES 

Choose either the School of Knowledge or School of War subclass. 

SCHOOL OF KNOWLEDGE 

Play the School of Knowledge if you want a keen understanding of the world around you. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Knowledge 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Prepared: Take an additional domain card of your level or 

lower from a domain you have access to. 

Adept: When you Utilize an Experience, you can mark a Stress instead of spending a Hope. If you do, double your Experience modifier for that roll. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURES Accomplished: Take an additional domain card of your level or lower from a domain you have access to. 

Perfect Recall: Once per rest, when you recall a domain 

card in your vault, you can reduce its Recall Cost by 1. 

MASTERYFEATURES Brilliant: Take an additional domain card of your level or 

lower from a domain you have access to. 

Honed Expertise: When you use an Experience, roll a d6. On a result of 5 or higher, you can use it without spending Hope. 

SCHOOL OF WAR 

Play the School of War if you want to utilize trained magic for violence. 

SPELLCASTTRAIT Knowledge 

FOUNDATION FEATURES Battlemage: You’ve focused your studies on becoming an unconquerable force on the battlefield. Gain an additional Hit Point slot. 

Face Your Fear: When you succeed with Fear on an attack roll, you deal an extra 1d10 magic damage. 

SPECIALIZATION FEATURES Conjure Shield: You can maintain a protective barrier of magic. While you have at least 2 Hope, you add your Proficiency to your Evasion. 

Fueled by Fear: The extra magic damage from your “Face 

Your Fear” feature increases to 2d10. 

 MASTERY FEATURES 

Thrive in Chaos: When you succeed on an attack, you can mark a Stress after rolling damage to force the target to mark an additional Hit Point. 

Have No Fear: The extra magic damage from your “Face Your Fear” feature increases to 3d10. 

BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 

Answer any of the following background questions. You can also create your own questions. 

• What responsibilities did your community once count on you for? How did you let them down? • You’ve spent your life searching for a book or object of great significance. What is it, and why is it so important to you? • You have a powerful rival. Who are they, and why are you so determined to defeat them? CONNECTIONS 

Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for their character to answer, or create your own questions. 

• What favor have I asked of you that you’re not sure you can fulfill? • What weird hobby or strange fascination do we both share? • What secret about yourself have you entrusted only to me?  ANCESTRIES 

Ancestries represent your character’s lineage, which affects their physical appearance and access to certain special abilities. The following section describes each ancestry in Daggerheart and the characteristics generally shared by members of that ancestry, however, each player decides how much their character aligns with the “standard” or “average” expression of their ancestry. 

In Daggerheart, the term “people” is used to refer to all ancestries, as individuals from all lineages possess unique characteristics and cultures, as well as personhood. 

Some ancestries are described using the term “humanoid.” This does not imply any genetic relation to “humans,” which is a distinct ancestry within Daggerheart. Instead, it refers to the set of physical characteristics humans will recognize from their own anatomy, such as bipedal movement, upright posture, facial layout, and more. These traits vary by ancestry and individual, though “humanoid” should still provide a useful frame of reference. 

The core ruleset includes the following ancestries: Clank, Drakona, Dwarf, Elf, Faerie, Faun, Firbolg, Fungril, Galapa, Giant, Goblin, Halfling, Human, Infernis, Katari, Orc, Ribbet, Simiah, and Mixed Ancestry. 

ANCESTRY FEATURES 

Each ancestry grants two ancestry features. While some features (such as the ability to fly) are implicitly tied to an ancestry’s anatomy, players determine their characters’ physical form. Work with the GM to re-flavor any implied traits that don’t align with your character concept. 

If you’d like to make a character who combines more than one ancestry, see “Mixed Ancestry.” 

CLANK 

Clanks are sentient mechanical beings built from a variety of materials, including metal, wood, and stone. They can resemble humanoids, animals, or even inanimate objects. Like organic beings, their bodies come in a wide array of sizes. Because of their bespoke construction, many clanks have highly specialized physical configurations. Examples include clawed hands for grasping, wheels for movement, or built-in weaponry. 

Many clanks embrace body modifications for style as well as function, and members of other ancestries often turn to clank artisans to construct customized mobility aids and physical adornments. Other ancestries can create clanks, even using their own physical characteristics as inspiration, but it’s also common for clanks to build one another. A clank’s lifespan extends as long as they’re able to acquire or craft new parts, making their physical form effectively immortal. That said, their minds are subject to the effects of time, and deteriorate as the magic that powers them loses potency. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Purposeful Design: Decide who made you and for what purpose. At character creation, choose one of your Experiences that best aligns with this purpose and gain a permanent +1 bonus to it. 

Efficient: When you take a short rest, you can choose a long rest move instead of a short rest move. 

DRAKONA 

Drakona resemble wingless dragons in humanoid form and possess a powerful elemental breath. All drakona have thick scales that provide excellent natural armor against both attacks and the forces of nature. They are large in size, ranging from 5 feet to 7 feet on average, with long sharp teeth. New teeth grow throughout a Drakona’s approximately 350-year lifespan, so they are never in danger of permanently losing an incisor. Unlike their dragon ancestors, drakona don’t have wings and can’t fly without magical aid. Members of this ancestry pass down the element of their breath through generations, though in rare cases, a drakona’s elemental power will differ from the rest of their family’s. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Scales: Your scales act as natural protection. When you would take Severe damage, you can mark a Stress to mark 1 fewer Hit Points. 

Elemental Breath: Choose an element for your breath (such as electricity, fire, or ice). You can use this breath against a target or group of targets within Very Close range, treating it as an Instinct weapon that deals d8 magic damage using your Proficiency. 

DWARF 

Dwarves are most easily recognized as short humanoids with square frames, dense musculature, and thick hair. Their average height ranges from 4 to 5 ½ feet, and they are often broad in proportion to their stature. Their skin and nails contain a high amount of keratin, making them naturally resilient. This allows dwarves to embed gemstones into their bodies and decorate themselves with tattoos or piercings. Their hair grows thickly—usually on their heads, but some dwarves have thick hair across their bodies as well. Dwarves of all genders can grow facial hair, which they often style in elaborate arrangements. Typically, dwarves live up to 250 years of age, maintaining their muscle mass well into later life. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Thick Skin: When you take Minor damage, you can mark 2 Stress instead of marking a Hit Point. 

Increased Fortitude: Spend 3 Hope to halve incoming physical damage. 

 ELF 

Elves are typically tall humanoids with pointed ears and acutely attuned senses. Their ears vary in size and pointed shape, and as they age, the tips begin to droop. While elves come in a wide range of body types, they are all fairly tall, with heights ranging from about 6 to 6 ½ feet. All elves have the ability to drop into a celestial trance, rather than sleep. This allows them to rest effectively in a short amount of time. 

Some elves possess what is known as a “mystic form,” which occurs when an elf has dedicated themself to the study or protection of the natural world so deeply that their physical form changes. These characteristics can include celestial freckles, the presence of leaves, vines, or flowers in their hair, eyes that flicker like fire, and more. Sometimes these traits are inherited from parents, but if an elf changes their environment or magical focus, their appearance changes over time. Because elves live for about 350 years, these traits can shift more than once throughout their lifespan. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Quick Reactions: Mark a Stress to gain advantage on a reaction roll. 

Celestial Trance: During a rest, you can drop into a trance to choose an additional downtime move. 

FAERIE 

Faeries are winged humanoid creatures with insectile features. These characteristics cover a broad spectrum from humanoid to insectoid—some possess additional arms, compound eyes, lantern organs, chitinous exoskeletons, or stingers. Because of their close ties to the natural world, they also frequently possess attributes that allow them to blend in with various plants. The average height of a faerie ranges from about 2 feet to 5 feet, but some faeries grow up to 7 feet tall. All faeries possess membranous wings and they each go through a process of metamorphosis. The process and changes differ from faerie to faerie, but during this transformation each individual manifests the unique appearance they will carry throughout the rest of their approximately 50-year lifespan. 

ANCESTRYFEATURE Luckbender: Once per session, after you or a willing ally within Close range makes an action roll, you can spend 3 Hope to reroll the Duality Dice. 

Wings: You can fly. While flying, you can mark a Stress after an adversary makes an attack against you to gain a +2 bonus to your Evasion against that attack. 

FAUN 

Fauns resemble humanoid goats with curving horns, square pupils, and cloven hooves. Though their appearances may vary, most fauns have a humanoid torso and a goatlike lower body covered in dense fur. Faun faces can be more caprine or 

more humanlike, and they have a wide variety of ear and horn shapes. Faun horns range from short with minimal curvature to much larger with a distinct curl. The average faun ranges from 4 feet to 6 ½ feet tall, but their height can change dramatically from one moment to the next based on their stance. The majority of fauns have proportionately long limbs, no matter their size or shape, and are known for their ability to deliver powerful blows with their split hooves. Fauns live for roughly 225 years, and as they age, their appearance can become increasingly goatlike. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Caprine Leap: You can leap anywhere within Close range as though you were using normal movement, allowing you to vault obstacles, jump across gaps, or scale barriers with ease. 

Kick: When you succeed on an attack against a target within Melee range, you can mark a Stress to kick yourself off them, dealing an extra 2d6 damage and knocking back either yourself or the target to Very Close range. 

FIRBOLG 

Firbolgs are bovine humanoids typically recognized by their broad noses and long, drooping ears. Some have faces that are a blend of humanoid and bison, ox, cow, or other bovine creatures. Others, often referred to as minotaurs, have heads that entirely resemble cattle. They are tall and muscular creatures, with heights ranging from around 5 feet to 

7 feet, and possess remarkable strength no matter their age. Some firbolgs are known to use this strength to charge their adversaries, an action that is particuarly effective for those who have one of the many varieties of horn styles commonly found in this ancestry. Though their unique characteristics can vary, all firbolgs are covered in fur, which can be muted and earth-toned in color, or come in a variety of pastels, such as soft pinks and blues. On average, firbolgs live for about 150 years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Charge: When you succeed on an Agility Roll to move from Far or Very Far range into Melee range with one or more targets, you can mark a Stress to deal 1d12 physical damage to all targets within Melee range. 

Unshakable: When you would mark a Stress, roll a d6. On a result of 6, don’t mark it. 

 FUNGRIL 

Fungril resemble humanoid mushrooms. They can be either more humanoid or more fungal in appearance, and they come in an assortment of colors, from earth tones to bright reds, yellows, purples, and blues. Fungril display an incredible variety of bodies, faces, and limbs, as there’s no single common shape among them. Even their heights range from a tiny 2 feet tall to a staggering 7 feet tall. While the common lifespan of a fungril is about 300 years, some have been reported to live much longer. They can communicate nonverbally, and many members of this ancestry use a mycelial array to chemically exchange information with other fungril across long distances. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Fungril Network: Make an Instinct Roll (12) to use your mycelial array to speak with others of your ancestry. On a success, you can communicate across any distance. 

Death Connection: While touching a corpse that died recently, you can mark a Stress to extract one memory from the corpse related to a specific emotion or sensation of your choice. 

GALAPA 

Galapa resemble anthropomorphic turtles with large, domed shells into which they can retract. On average, they range from 4 feet to 6 feet in height, and their head and body shapes can resemble any type of turtle. Galapa come in a variety of earth tones—most often shades of green and brown— and possess unique patterns on their shells. Members of this ancestry can draw their head, arms, and legs into their shell for protection to use it as a natural shield when defensive measures are needed. Some supplement their shell's strength or appearance by attaching armor or carving unique designs, but the process is exceedingly painful. Most galapa move slowly no matter their age, and they can live approximately 150 years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Shell: Gain a bonus to your damage thresholds equal to your Proficiency. 

Retract: Mark a Stress to retract into your shell. While in your shell, you have resistance to physical damage, you have disadvantage on action rolls, and you can’t move. 

GIANT 

Giants are towering humanoids with broad shoulders, long arms, and one to three eyes. Adult giants range from 6 ½ to 8 ½ feet tall and are naturally muscular, regardless of body type. They are easily recognized by their wide frames and elongated arms and necks. Though they can have up to three eyes, all giants are born with none and remain sightless for their first year of life. Until a giant reaches the age of 10 and their features fully develop, the formation of their eyes may 

fluctuate. Those with a single eye are commonly known as cyclops. The average giant lifespan is about 75 years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Endurance: Gain an additional Hit Point slot at character creation. 

Reach: Treat any weapon, ability, spell, or other feature that has a Melee range as though it has a Very Close range instead. 

GOBLIN 

Goblins are small humanoids easily recognizable by their large eyes and massive membranous ears. With keen hearing and sharp eyesight, they perceive details both at great distances and in darkness, allowing them to move through less-optimal environments with ease. Their skin and eye colors are incredibly varied, with no one hue, either vibrant or subdued, more dominant than another. A typical goblin stands between 3 feet and 4 feet tall, and each of their ears is about the size of their head. Goblins are known to use ear positions to very specific effect when communicating nonverbally. A goblin’s lifespan is roughly 100 years, and many maintain their keen hearing and sight well into advanced age. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Surefooted: You ignore disadvantage on Agility Rolls. 

Danger Sense: Once per rest, mark a Stress to force an adversary to reroll an attack against you or an ally within Very Close range. 

HALFLING 

Halflings are small humanoids with large hairy feet and prominent rounded ears. On average, halflings are 3 to 4 feet in height, and their ears, nose, and feet are larger in proportion to the rest of their body. Members of this ancestry live for around 150 years, and a halfling’s appearance is likely to remain youthful even as they progress from adulthood into old age. Halflings are naturally attuned to the magnetic fields of the Mortal Realm, granting them a strong internal compass. They also possess acute senses of hearing and smell, and can often detect those who are familiar to them by the sound of their movements. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Luckbringer: At the start of each session, everyone in your party gains a Hope. 

Internal Compass: When you roll a 1 on your Hope Die, you can reroll it. 

 HUMAN 

Humans are most easily recognized by their dexterous hands, rounded ears, and bodies built for endurance. Their average height ranges from just under 5 feet to about 6 ½ feet. They have a wide variety of builds, with some being quite broad, others lithe, and many inhabiting the spectrum in between. Humans are physically adaptable and adjust to harsh climates with relative ease. In general, humans live to an age of about 100, with their bodies changing dramatically between their youngest and oldest years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES High Stamina: Gain an additional Stress slot at character creation. 

Adaptability: When you fail a roll that utilized one of your Experiences, you can mark a Stress to reroll. 

INFERNIS 

Infernis are humanoids who possess sharp canine teeth, pointed ears, and horns. They are the descendants of demons from the Circles Below. On average, infernis range in height from 5 feet to 7 feet and are known to have long fingers and pointed nails. Some have long, thin, and smooth tails that end in points, forks, or arrowheads. It’s common for infernis to have two or four horns—though some have crowns of many horns, or only one. These horns can also grow asymmetrically, forming unique, often curving, shapes that infernis enhance with carving and ornamentation. Their skin, hair, and horns come in an assortment of colors that can include soft pastels, stark tones, or vibrant hues, such as rosy scarlet, deep purple, and pitch black. 

Infernis possess a “dread visage” that manifests both involuntarily, such as when they experience fear or other strong emotions, or purposefully, such as when they wish to intimidate an adversary. This visage can briefly modify their appearance in a variety of ways, including lengthening their teeth and nails, changing the colors of their eyes, twisting their horns, or enhancing their height. On average, infernis live up to 350 years, with some attributing this lifespan to their demonic lineage. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Fearless: When you roll with Fear, you can mark 2 Stress to change it into a roll with Hope instead. 

Dread Visage: You have advantage on rolls to intimidate hostile creatures. 

KATARI 

Katari are feline humanoids with retractable claws, vertically slit pupils, and high, triangular ears. They can also have small, pointed canine teeth, soft fur, and long whiskers that assist their perception and navigation. Their ears can swivel nearly 180 degrees to detect sound, adding to their heightened senses. Katari may look more or less feline or humanoid, with catlike attributes in the form of hair, whiskers, and a muzzle. About half of the katari population have tails. Their skin and fur come in a wide range of hues and patterns, including solid colors, calico tones, tabby stripes, and an array of spots, patches, marbling, or bands. Their height ranges from about 3 feet to 6 ½ feet, and they live to around 150 years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Feline Instincts: When you make an Agility Roll, you can spend 2 Hope to reroll your Hope Die. 

Retracting Claws: Make an Agility Roll to scratch a target within Melee range. On a success, they become temporarily 

Vulnerable. 

ORC 

Orcs are humanoids most easily recognized by their square features and boar-like tusks that protrude from their lower jaw. Tusks come in various sizes, and though they extend from the mouth, they aren’t used for consuming food. Instead, many orcs choose to decorate their tusks with significant ornamentation. Orcs typically live for 125 years, and unless altered, their tusks continue to grow throughout the course of their lives. Their ears are pointed, and their hair and skin typically have green, blue, pink, or gray tones. Orcs tend toward a muscular build, and their average height ranges from 5 feet to 6 ½ feet. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Sturdy: When you have 1 Hit Point remaining, attacks against you have disadvantage. 

Tusks: When you succeed on an attack against a target within Melee range, you can spend a Hope to gore the target with your tusks, dealing an extra 1d6 damage. 

 RIBBET 

Ribbets resemble anthropomorphic frogs with protruding eyes and webbed hands and feet. They have smooth (though sometimes warty) moist skin and eyes positioned on either side of their head. Some ribbets have hind legs more than twice the length of their torso, while others have short limbs. No matter their size (which ranges from about 3 feet to 4 ½ feet), ribbets primarily move by hopping. All ribbets have webbed appendages, allowing them to swim with ease. Some ribbets possess a natural green-and-brown camouflage, while others are vibrantly colored with bold patterns. No matter their appearance, all ribbets are born from eggs laid in the water, hatch into tadpoles, and after about 6 to 7 years, grow into amphibians that can move around on land. Ribbets live for approximately 100 years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Amphibious: You can breathe and move naturally underwater. 

Long Tongue: You can use your long tongue to grab onto things within Close range. Mark a Stress to use your tongue as a Finesse Close weapon that deals d12 physical damage using your Proficiency. 

SIMIAH 

Simiah resemble anthropomorphic monkeys and apes with long limbs and prehensile feet. While their appearance reflects all simian creatures, from the largest gorilla to the smallest marmoset, their size does not align with their animal counterparts, and they can be anywhere from 2 to 6 feet tall. All simiah can use their dexterous feet for nonverbal communication, work, and combat. Additionally, some also have prehensile tails that can grasp objects or help with balance during difficult maneuvers. These traits grant members of this ancestry unique agility that aids them in a variety of physical tasks. In particular, simiah are skilled climbers and can easily transition from bipedal movement to knuckle-walking and climbing, and back again. On average, simiah live for about 100 years. 

ANCESTRYFEATURES Natural Climber: You have advantage on Agility Rolls that involve balancing and climbing. 

Nimble: Gain a permanent +1 bonus to your Evasion at character creation. 

MIXED ANCESTRY 

Families within the world of Daggerheart are as unique as the peoples and cultures that inhabit it. Anyone’s appearance and abilities can be shaped by blood, magic, proximity, or a variety of other factors. 

If you decide that your character is a descendant of multiple ancestries and you want to mechanically represent that in the game, use the steps below: 

1. Determine Ancestry Combination When you choose an ancestry at character creation, write down how your character identifies themself in the Heritage section of your character sheet. For example, if your character is descended from both goblins and orcs, you could use a hybridized term, such as “goblin-orc,” to describe your ancestry, list only the ancestry you more closely identify with (e.g., just “goblin” or just “orc”), or invent a new term, such as “toothling.” 2. Choose Ancestry Features Work with your GM to choose two features from the ancestries in your character’s lineage. You must choose the first feature from one ancestry and the second from another. Write both down on a notecard you can keep with your other cards or next to your character sheet. For example, if you are making a goblin-orc, you might take the “Surefooted” and “Tusks” features or the “Sturdy” and “Danger Sense” features. You can’t take both the “Surefooted” and “Sturdy” features, because these are both the first features listed on their respective ancestry cards. 

Your character's heritage might include more than two ancestries, but you still only choose features from two. You can represent additional ancestries through their appearance or backstory. 

 COMMUNITIES 

Communities represent a key aspect of the culture, class, or environment of origin that has had the most influence over your character’s upbringing. 

Your character’s community grants them a community feature. Each community card also lists six adjectives you can use as inspiration to create your character’s personality, their relationship to their peers, their attitude toward their upbringing, or the demeanor with which they interact with the rest of the party. 

HIGHBORNE 

Being part of a highborne community means you're accustomed to a life of elegance, opulence, and prestige within the upper echelons of society. Traditionally, members of a highborne community possess incredible material wealth. While this can take a variety of forms depending on the community—including gold and other minerals, land, or controlling the means of production—this status always comes with power and influence. Highborne place great value on titles and possessions, and there is little social mobility within their ranks. Members of a highborne community often control the political and economic status of the areas in which they live due to their ability to influence people and the economy with their substantial wealth. The health and safety of the less affluent people who live in these locations often hinges on the ability of this highborne ruling class to prioritize the well-being of their subjects over profit. 

Highborne are often amiable, candid, conniving, enterprising, ostentatious, and unflappable. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Privilege: You have advantage on rolls to consort with nobles, negotiate prices, or leverage your reputation to get what you want. 

LOREBORNE 

Being part of a loreborne community means you’re from a society that favors strong academic or political prowess. Loreborne communities highly value knowledge, frequently in the form of historical preservation, political advancement, scientific study, skill development, or lore and mythology compilation. Most members of these communities research in institutions built in bastions of civilization, while some eclectic few thrive in gathering information from the natural world. Some may be isolationists, operating in smaller enclaves, schools, or guilds and following their own unique ethos. Others still wield their knowledge on a larger scale, making deft political maneuvers across governmental landscapes. 

Loreborne are often direct, eloquent, inquisitive, patient, rhapsodic, and witty. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Well-Read: You have advantage on rolls that involve the history, culture, or politics of a prominent person or place. 

ORDERBORNE 

Being part of an orderborne community means you’re from a collective that focuses on discipline or faith, and you uphold a set of principles that reflect your experience there. Orderborne are frequently some of the most powerful among the surrounding communities. By aligning the members of their society around a common value or goal, such as a god, doctrine, ethos, or even a shared business or trade, the ruling bodies of these enclaves can mobilize larger populations with less effort. While orderborne communities take a variety of forms—some even profoundly pacifistic—perhaps the most feared are those that structure themselves around military prowess. In such a case, it’s not uncommon for orderborne to provide soldiers for hire to other cities or countries. 

Orderborne are often ambitious, benevolent, pensive, prudent, sardonic, and stoic. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Dedicated: Record three sayings or values your upbringing instilled in you. Once per rest, when you describe how you’re embodying one of these principles through your current action, you can roll a d20 as your Hope Die. 

 RIDGEBORNE 

Being part of a ridgeborne community means you’ve called the rocky peaks and sharp cliffs of the mountainside home. Those who’ve lived in the mountains often consider themselves hardier than most because they’ve thrived among the most dangerous terrain many continents have to offer. These groups are adept at adaptation, developing unique technologies and equipment to move both people and products across difficult terrain. As such, ridgeborne grow up scrambling and climbing, making them sturdy and strong-willed. Ridgeborne localities appear in a variety of forms—some cities carve out entire cliff faces, others construct castles of stone, and still more live in small homes on windblown peaks. Outside forces often struggle to attack ridgeborne groups, as the small militias and large military forces of the mountains are adept at utilizing their high-ground advantage. 

Ridgeborne are often bold, hardy, indomitable, loyal, reserved, and stubborn. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Steady: You have advantage on rolls to traverse dangerous cliffs and ledges, navigate harsh environments, and use your survival knowledge. 

SEABORNE 

Being part of a seaborne community means you lived on or near a large body of water. Seaborne communities are built, both physically and culturally, around the specific waters they call home. Some of these groups live along the shore, constructing ports for locals and travelers alike. These harbors function as centers of commerce, tourist attractions, or even just a safe place to lay down one’s head after weeks of travel. Other seaborne live on the water in small boats or large ships, with the idea of “home” comprising a ship and its crew, rather than any one landmass. No matter their exact location, seaborne communities are closely tied to the ocean tides and the creatures who inhabit them. Seaborne learn to fish at a young age, and train from birth to hold their breath and swim in even the most tumultuous waters. Individuals from these groups are highly sought after for their sailing skills, and many become captains of vessels, whether within their own community, working for another, or even at the helm of a powerful naval operation. 

Seaborne are often candid, cooperative, exuberant, fierce, resolute, and weathered. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Know the Tide: You can sense the ebb and flow of life. When you roll with Fear, place a token on your community card. You can hold a number of tokens equal to your level. Before you make an action roll, you can spend any number of these tokens to gain a +1 bonus to the roll for each token spent. At the end of each session, clear all unspent tokens. 

SLYBORNE 

Being part of a slyborne community means you come from a group that operates outside the law, including all manner of criminals, grifters, and con artists. Members of slyborne communities are brought together by their disreputable goals and their clever means of achieving them. Many people in these communities have an array of unscrupulous skills: forging, thievery, smuggling, and violence. People of any social class can be slyborne, from those who have garnered vast wealth and influence to those without a coin to their name. To the outside eye, slyborne might appear to be ruffians with no loyalty, but these communities possess some of the strictest codes of honor which, when broken, can result in a terrifying end for the transgressor. 

Slyborne are often calculating, clever, formidable, perceptive, shrewd, and tenacious. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Scoundrel: You have advantage on rolls to negotiate with criminals, detect lies, or find a safe place to hide. 

UNDERBORNE 

Being part of an underborne community means you’re from a subterranean society. Many underborne live right beneath the cities and villages of other collectives, while some live much deeper. These communities range from small family groups in burrows to massive metropolises in caverns of stone. In many locales, underborne are recognized for their incredible boldness and skill that enable great feats of architecture and engineering. Underborne are regularly hired for their bravery, as even the least daring among them has likely encountered formidable belowground beasts, and learning to dispatch such creatures is common practice amongst these societies. Because of the dangers of their environment, many underborne communities develop unique nonverbal languages that prove equally useful on the surface. 

Underborne are often composed, elusive, indomitable, innovative, resourceful, and unpretentious. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Low-Light Living: When you’re in an area with low light or heavy shadow, you have advantage on rolls to hide, investigate, or perceive details within that area. 

 WANDERBORNE 

Being part of a wanderborne community means you’ve lived as a nomad, forgoing a permanent home and experiencing a wide variety of cultures. Unlike many communities that are defined by their locale, wanderborne are defined by their traveling lifestyle. Because of their frequent migration, wanderborne put less value on the accumulation of material possessions in favor of acquiring information, skills, and connections. While some wanderborne are allied by a common ethos, such as a religion or a set of political or economic values, others come together after shared tragedy, such as the loss of their home or land. No matter the reason, the dangers posed by life on the road and the choice to continue down that road together mean that wanderborne are known for their unwavering loyalty. 

Wanderborne are often inscrutable, magnanimous, mirthful, reliable, savvy, and unorthodox. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Nomadic Pack: Add a Nomadic Pack to your inventory. Once per session, you can spend a Hope to reach into this pack and pull out a mundane item that’s useful to your situation. Work with the GM to figure out what item you take out. 

WILDBORNE 

Being part of a wildborne community means you lived deep within the forest. Wildborne communities are defined by their dedication to the conservation of their homelands, and many have strong religious or cultural ties to the fauna they live among. This results in unique architectural and technological advancements that favor sustainability over short-term, high-yield results. It is a hallmark of wildborne societies to integrate their villages and cities with the natural environment and avoid disturbing the lives of the plants and animals. While some construct their lodgings high in the branches of trees, others establish their homes on the ground beneath the forest canopy. It’s not uncommon for wildborne to remain reclusive and hidden within their woodland homes. 

Wildborne are often hardy, loyal, nurturing, reclusive, sagacious, and vibrant. 

COMMUNITYFEATURE Lightfoot: Your movement is naturally silent. You have advantage on rolls to move without being heard. 

 CORE MECHANICS 

FLOW OF THE GAME 

Daggerheart is a conversation. The GM describes fictional scenarios involving the PCs, and the players take turns describing how their characters react. The goal of every person at the table is to build upon everyone else’s ideas and collaboratively tell a satisfying story. The system facilitates this collaborative process by providing structure to the conversation and mechanics for resolving moments of tension where fate or fortune determine the outcome of events. 

PLAYER PRINCIPLES & BEST PRACTICES 

To get the most out of Daggerheart, we recommend players keep the following principles and practices in mind throughout each session: 

PRINCIPLES 

• Be a fan of your character and their journey. • Spotlight your friends. • Address the characters and address the players. • Build the world together. • Play to find out what happens. • Hold on gently. BEST PRACTICES 

• Embrace danger. • Use your resources. • Tell the story. • Discover your character. For more information, see the Daggerheart Core Rulebook, 

pages 9 and 108. 

Core GameplayLoop 

The core gameplay loop is the procedure that drives every scene, both in and out of combat: 

STEP 1: 

SET THE SCENE 

The GM describes a scenario, establishing the PCs’ surroundings and any dangers, NPCs, or other important details the characters would notice. 

STEP 2 

ASK AND ANSWER QUESTIONS 

The players ask clarifying questions to explore the scene more deeply and gather information that could inform their characters’ actions. The GM responds to these questions by giving the players information their characters could easily obtain, or by asking questions of their own to the players. The players also respond to any questions the GM poses to them. In this way, the table builds out the fiction collaboratively. 

STEP 3 

BUILD ON THE FICTION 

As the scene develops, the players find opportunities to take action—problems to solve, obstacles to overcome, mysteries to investigate, and so on. The players describe how their characters proceed; if their proposed actions carry no chance of failure (or if failure would be boring), they automatically succeed. But if the outcome of their action is unknown, the GM calls for an action roll. Either way, the table works the outcome into the story and moves the fiction forward, narrating how the PC’s actions have changed things. 

STEP 4 

GO BACK TO STEP 1 

The process repeats from the beginning, with the GM relaying any updated details or material changes to the players. This process continues until the end of the scene is triggered by a mechanic or arrives organically. 

The Spotlight 

The spotlight is a symbol that represents the table’s attention—and therefore the immediate focus of both the narrative and the game mechanics. Any time a character or player becomes the focus of a scene, they “are in the spotlight” or “have the spotlight.” 

The spotlight moves around the table organically as scenes unfold unless a mechanical trigger determines where the spotlight goes next. For example, when a player fails an action roll, the mechanics prompt the GM to seize the spotlight and make a GM move. 

 Turn Order & Action Economy 

Daggerheart’s turns don’t follow a traditional, rigid format: there is no explicit initiative mechanic and characters don’t have a set number of actions they can take or things they can do before the spotlight passes to someone else. A player with the spotlight describes what their character does and the spotlight simply swings to whoever: 

A. the fiction would naturally turn it toward B. hasn’t had the focus in a while, or C. a triggered mechanic puts it on Optional: Spotlight Tracker Tool 

If your group prefers a more traditional action economy, you can use tokens to track how many times a player has had the spotlight: At the start of a session or scene, each player adds a certain number of tokens (we recommend 

3) to their character sheet and removes a token each time they take an action. If the spotlight would swing to someone without any tokens, it swings to someone else instead. Once every player has used all their available tokens, players refill their character sheet with the same number of tokens as before, then continue playing. MAKING MOVES & TAKING ACTION 

Any time a character does something to advance the story, such as speaking with another character, interacting with the environment, making an attack, casting a spell, or using a class feature, they are making a move. 

ACTION ROLLS 

Any move where success would be trivial or failure would be boring automatically succeeds, but any move that’s difficult to accomplish or risky to attempt triggers an action roll. 

OVERVIEW 

All action rolls require a pair of d12s called Duality Dice. These are two visually distinct twelve-sided dice, with one die representing Hope and the other representing Fear. 

To make an action roll, you roll the Duality Dice, sum the results, apply any relevant modifiers, and compare the total to a Difficulty number to determine the outcome: 

• Success with Hope: If your total meets or beats the Difficulty AND your Hope Die shows a higher result than your Fear Die, you rolled a “Success with Hope.” You succeed and gain a Hope. • Success with Fear: If your total meets or beats the Difficulty AND your Fear Die shows a higher result than your Hope Die, you rolled a “Success with Fear.” You succeed with a cost or complication, but the GM gains a Fear. • Failure with Hope: If your total is less than the Difficulty AND your Hope Die shows a higher result than your Fear Die, you rolled a “Failure with Hope.” You fail with a minor consequence and gain a Hope, then the spotlight swings to the GM. • Failure with Fear: If your total is less than the Difficulty AND your Fear Die shows a higher result than your Hope Die, you rolled a “Failure with Fear.” You fail with a major consequence and the GM gains a Fear, then the spotlight swings to the GM. • Critical Success: If the Duality Dice show matching results, you rolled a “Critical Success” (“Crit”). You automatically succeed with a bonus, gain a Hope, and clear a Stress. If this was an attack roll, you deal critical damage. Note: A Critical Success counts as a roll “with Hope.” 

After resolving the action roll, the table works together to weave the outcome into the narrative and play continues. 

FAILING FORWARD In Daggerheart, every time you roll the dice, the scene changes in some way. There is no such thing as a roll where “nothing happens,” because the fiction constantly evolves based on the successes and failures of the characters. 

PROCEDURE 

The following steps describe in more detail the procedure that all action rolls utilize: 

STEP1: PICK AN APPROPRIATE TRAIT Some actions and effects specify in their description which trait applies to the roll; otherwise, the GM tells the acting player which character trait best applies to the action being attempted. If more than one trait could apply to the roll, the GM chooses or lets the acting player decide. 

STEP2: DETERMINE THE DIFFICULTY Some actions and features say in their description what the Difficulty is. Otherwise, the GM determines the Difficulty based on the scenario. The GM can choose whether to share the Difficulty with the table. In either case, the GM should communicate the potential consequences of failure to the acting player. 

STEP3: APPLY EXTRA DICE AND MODIFIERS The acting player decides whether to Utilize an Experience or activate other effects, then, if applicable, adds the appropriate tokens and dice (such as advantage or Rally dice) to their dice pool. 

Note: Unless an action, ability, or feature specifically allows for it, a player must declare the use of any Experiences, extra dice, or other modifiers before they roll. 

 STEP4: ROLL THE DICE The acting player rolls their entire dice pool and announces the results in the format of “[total result] with [Hope/Fear]”— or “Critical Success!” in the case of matching Duality Dice. 

Example: A player is making an action roll with a +1 in the relevant trait and no other modifiers; they roll the Duality Dice and get a result of 5 on their Hope Die and 7 on their Fear Die, then announce “I rolled a 13 with Fear!” 

STEP5: RESOLVE THE OUTCOME The active player and the GM work together, along with the suggestions and support of the rest of the table, to resolve the outcome of the action. 

GM MOVES AND ADVERSARY ACTIONS 

GMs also make moves. They should consider making a move when a player does one of the following things: 

• Rolls with Fear on an action roll. • Fails an action roll. • Does something that would have consequences. • Gives them a golden opportunity. • Looks to them for what happens next. After the GM turn is done, the spotlight goes back to the PCs. 

Many adversaries and environments have Fear Features, especially powerful or consequential moves that the GM must spend Fear to activate. 

Note: This Fear is in addition to any Fear the GM has previously spent to seize the spotlight or activate another action or ability. 

ADVERSARY ACTIONS 

When play passes to the GM, the GM can make a GM move to spotlight an adversary. A spotlighted adversary can: 

• Move within Close range and make a standard attack • Move within Close range and use an adversary action • Clear a condition • Sprint within Far or Very Far range on the battlefield • Do anything else the fiction demands or the GM deems appropriate The GM can spend additional Fear to spotlight additional adversaries. Once the GM has finished, the spotlight swings back to the PCs. 

SPECIAL ROLLS 

Some rolls have unique specifications or otherwise modify the action roll procedure: trait rolls, Spellcast Rolls, attack rolls, and damage rolls. Unless otherwise noted, you can apply any bonus, modifier, or effect to a special roll as if it were a standard action roll. 

TRAITROLLS An action roll that specifies which character trait applies to it is called a trait roll. In the text of a feature or effect, a trait roll is referenced with the format “[Trait] Roll (Difficulty)” (e.g., “Agility Roll (12)”). If the text of an effect doesn’t specify a trait roll’s Difficulty, the GM sets the Difficulty based on the circumstances. 

Features and effects that affect a trait roll also affect any action roll that uses the same trait, including attack rolls, Spellcast rolls, and standard action rolls. 

Example: The katari’s ancestry feature “Feline Instincts,” which allows the katari to reroll an Agility Roll, can also be used on a standard action roll using Agility to traverse dangerous terrain or on an attack roll made with a weapon that uses Agility. 

SPELLCASTROLLS Spellcast Rolls are trait rolls that require you to use your Spellcast trait. Your Spellcast trait, if you have one, is determined by your subclass. 

Spellcast Rolls are only made when a character uses a feature that requires one. A successful Spellcast Roll activates the effect as described by the feature. 

Notes: 

A Spellcast Roll that can damage a target is also considered an attack roll. 

When you cast a spell, the text tells you when the effect ends. The GM can spend a Fear to end a temporary effect. If your spell doesn’t specify when it ends, it ends when you choose or at a natural moment of the story. You can choose to end your spell early. 

You can cast and maintain the effects of more than one spell at the same time. 

REACTION ROLLS A reaction roll is made in response to an attack or a hazard, representing a character’s attempt to avoid or withstand an imminent effect. 

Reaction rolls work like action rolls, except they don’t generate Hope or Fear, don’t trigger additional GM moves, and other characters can’t aid you with Help an Ally. 

If you critically succeed on a reaction roll, you don’t clear a Stress or gain a Hope, but you do ignore any effects that would have impacted you on a success, such as taking damage or marking Stress. 

 GROUPACTION ROLLS When multiple PCs take action together, the party chooses one PC to lead the action. Each other player then describes how their character collaborates on the task. The leader makes an action roll as usual, while the other players make reaction rolls using whichever traits they and the GM decide fit best. 

The lead character gains a +1 bonus to their lead action roll for each of these reaction rolls that succeeded and a −1 penalty for each these reaction rolls that failed. 

TAG TEAM ROLLS Each player can, once per session, initiate a Tag Team Roll between their character and another PC by spending 3 Hope. The players work with one another to describe how they combine their actions in a unique and exciting way. Both players make separate action rolls; before resolving the roll’s outcome, choose one of the rolls to apply to both actions. On a roll with Hope, all PCs involved gain a Hope. On a roll with Fear, the GM gains a Fear token for each PC involved. 

On a successful Tag Team attack roll, both players roll damage and add the totals together to determine the damage dealt, which is then treated as if it came from a single source. If the attacks deal different types of damage, the players choose which type to deal. 

Notes: 

A Tag Team Roll counts as a single action roll for the purposes of any countdowns or features that track action rolls. 

Though each player may only initiate one Tag Team Roll per session, one PC can be involved in multiple Tag Team Rolls. 

ADVANTAGE & DISADVANTAGE 

Some features and effects let you roll with advantage or disadvantage on an action or reaction roll: 

• Advantage represents an opportunity that you seize to increase your chances of success. When you roll with advantage, you roll a d6 advantage die with your dice pool and add its result to your total. • Disadvantage represents an additional difficulty, hardship, or challenge you face when attempting an action. When you roll with disadvantage, you roll a d6 disadvantage die with your dice pool and subtract its result from your total. Advantage or disadvantage can be granted or imposed by mechanical triggers or at the GM’s discretion. When a PC aids you with Help an Ally, they roll their own advantage die and you add it to your total. 

Advantage and disadvantage dice cancel each out, one-forone, when they would be added to the same dice pool, so you’ll never roll both at the same time. If you have advantage or disadvantage from other sources that don’t affect your own dice pool, such as another player’s Help an Ally move, their effects stack with your rolled results. 

HOPE & FEAR 

Hope and Fear are metacurrencies representing the cosmic forces that shape the events of your table’s story. Hope powers PC abilities and features, while Fear powers the abilities of the GM and the adversaries and environments they control. 

HOPE 

Every PC starts with 2 Hope at character creation and gains more throughout play. A PC can have a maximum of 6 Hope at one time, and Hope carries over between sessions. 

Players can spend Hope to: 

• Help an Ally When you Help an Ally who is making an action roll, describe how you do so and roll an advantage die. Multiple players can spend Hope to help the same acting player, but that player only adds the highest result to their final total. • Utilize an Experience When you Utilize an Experience on a relevant roll, add its modifier to the result. You can spend multiple Hope to utilize multiple Experiences. • Initiate a Tag Team Roll Spend 3 Hope to initiate a Tag Team roll, combining the actions of two PCs into one impressive act of synergy. When you make a Tag Team roll, both players roll their action rolls and then choose which set of results to apply to the outcome. • Activate a Hope Feature A Hope Feature is any effect that allows (or requires) you to spend a specified amount of Hope to activate it. Class Hope features are class-specific features, detailed on your character sheet, that cost 3 Hope to activate. Note: When using a Hope Feature, if you rolled with Hope for that action, the Hope you gain from that roll can be spent on that feature (or toward it, if it requires spending multiple Hope). 

FEAR 

The GM gains Fear whenever a player rolls with Fear and can spend Fear at any time to make or enhance a GM move or to use a Fear Feature. The GM can have up to 12 Fear at one time. Fear carries over between sessions. 

 COMBAT 

Though Daggerheart relies on the same flow of collaborative storytelling in and out of combat, physical conflicts rely more heavily on several key mechanics related to attacking, maneuvering, and taking damage. 

EVASION 

Evasion represents a character’s ability to avoid attacks and other unwanted effects. Any roll made against a PC has a Difficulty equal to the target’s Evasion. A PC’s base Evasion is determined by their class, but can be modified by domain cards, equipment, conditions, and other effects. 

Note: attacks rolled against adversaries use the target’s Difficulty instead of Evasion. 

HIT POINTS & DAMAGE THRESHOLDS 

Hit Points (HP) represent a character’s ability to withstand physical injury. When a character takes damage, they mark 1 to 3 HP, based on their damage thresholds: 

• If the final damage is at or above the character’s Severe damage threshold, they mark 3 HP. • If the final damage is at or above the character’s Major damage threshold but below their Severe damage threshold, they mark 2 HP. • If the final damage is below the character’s Major damage threshold, they mark 1 HP. • If incoming damage is ever reduced to 0 or less, no HP is marked. A PC’s damage thresholds are calculated by adding their level to the listed damage thresholds of their equipped armor. A PC’s starting HP is based on their class, but they can gain additional Hit Points through advancements, features, and other effects. 

An adversary’s Damage Thresholds and HP are listed in their stat blocks. 

When a character marks their last Hit Point, they fall. If a PC falls, they make a death move. 

Characters can clear Hit Points by taking downtime moves (see: Downtime) or by activating relevant special abilities or effects. 

Optional Rule: Massive Damage 

If a character ever takes damage equal to twice their Severe threshold, they mark 4 HP instead of 3. 

STRESS 

Stress represents how much mental, physical, and emotional strain a character can endure. Some special abilities or effects require the character activating them to mark Stress, and the GM can require a PC to mark Stress as a GM move or to represent the cost, complication, or consequence of an action roll. 

When a character marks their last Stress, they become Vulnerable (see: Conditions) until they clear at least 1 Stress. 

When a character must mark 1 or more Stress but can’t, they mark 1 HP instead. A character can’t use a move that requires them to mark Stress if all of their Stress is marked. 

PCs can clear Stress by making downtime moves (see: Downtime). A PC’s maximum Stress is determined by their class, but they can increase it through advancements, abilities, and other effects. 

ATTACKING 

ATTACKROLLS An attack roll is an action roll intended to inflict harm. The trait that applies to an attack roll is specified by the weapon or spell being used. Unarmed attack rolls use either Strength or Finesse (GM’s choice). An attack roll’s Difficulty, unless otherwise noted, is equal to the Difficulty score of its target. 

DAMAGE ROLLS On a successful attack, roll damage. Damage is calculated from the damage roll listed in the attack’s description with the format “xdy+[modifier]” (e.g., for a spell that inflicts “1d8+2” damage, you roll an eight-sided and add 2 to the result; the damage dealt is equal to the total). 

Any time an effect says to deal damage using your Spellcast trait, you roll a number of dice equal to your Spellcast trait. 

Note: If your Spellcast trait is +0 or lower, you don’t roll anything. 

For weapons, the number of damage dice you roll is equal to your Proficiency. Note that your Proficiency multiplies the number of dice you roll, but doesn’t affect the modifier. For example, a PC with Proficiency 2 and wielding a weapon with a damage rating of “d8+2” deals damage equal to “2d8+2” on a successful attack. 

Successful unarmed attacks inflict [Proficiency]d4 damage. 

CRITICALDAMAGE When you get a critical success (i.e., you roll matching values on your Duality Dice) on an attack roll, you deal extra damage. Make the damage roll as usual, but add the maximum possible result of the damage dice to the final total. For instance, if an attack would normally deal 2d8+1 damage, a critical success would deal 2d8+1+16. 

 DAMAGE TYPES There are two damage types: physical damage (phy) and magic damage (mag). Unless stated otherwise, mundane weapons and unarmed attacks deal physical damage, and spells deal magic damage. 

RESISTANCE, IMMUNITY, AND DIRECT DAMAGE 

If a target has resistance to a damage type, then they reduce incoming damage of that type by half before comparing it to their Hit Point Thresholds. If the target has additional ways of reducing incoming damage, such as marking Armor Slots, they apply the resistance effect first. The effects of multiple resistances to the same damage type do not stack. 

If a target has immunity to a damage type, they ignore incoming damage of that type. 

If an attack deals both physical and magic damage, a character can only benefit from resistance or immunity if they are resistant or immune to both damage types. 

Direct damage is damage that can’t be reduced by marking Armor Slots. 

MULTI-TARGETATTACK ROLLS If a spell or ability allows you to target multiple adversaries, make one attack roll and one damage roll, then apply the results to each target individually. 

MULTIPLE DAMAGE SOURCES Damage dealt simultaneously from multiple sources is always totaled before it’s compared to its target’s damage thresholds. 

For example, if a PC with orc ancestry makes a successful attack against a target in Melee range and decides to spend a Hope to use their “Tusks” feature (which gives them an extra 1d6 damage on a damage roll), they would roll their normal weapon damage and add a d6 to the result, then deal that total damage to the adversary. 

MAPS, RANGE, AND MOVEMENT 

You can play Daggerheart using “theater of the mind” or maps and miniatures. The conversions below from abstract ranges to physical measurements assume 1 inch of map represents about 5 feet of fictional space. 

Daggerheart uses the following ranges to translate fictional positioning into relative distance for the purposes of targeting, movement, and other game mechanics: 

Melee: Close enough to touch, up to a few feet away. 

Very Close: Close enough to see fine details, about 5–10 feet away. While in danger, a character can move, as part of their action, from Very Close range into Melee range. On a map: anything within the shortest length of a game card (2-3 inches). 

Close: Close enough to see prominent details, about 10–30 feet away. While in danger, a character can move, as part of their action, from Close range into Melee range. 

On a map: anything within the length of a pencil (5-6 inches). 

Far: Close enough to see very little detail, about 30–100 feet away. While in danger, a character must make an Agility Roll to safely move from Far range into Melee range. 

On a map: anything within the length of the long edge of a 

piece of copy paper (11–12 inches). 

Very Far: Too far to make out any details, about 100–300 feet away. While in danger, a character must make an Agility Roll to safely move from Very Far range into Melee range. On a map: anything beyond Far range, but still within the bounds of the conflict or scene. 

Out of Range: Anything beyond a character’s Very Far 

range is Out of Range and usually can’t be targeted. 

Range is measured from the source of an effect, such as the attacker or spellcaster, to the target or object of an effect. 

A weapon, spell, ability, item, or other effect’s stated range is a maximum range; unless otherwise noted, it can be used at closer distances. 

Optional Rule: Defined Ranges 

If your table would rather operate with more precise range rules, you can use a 1-inch grid battle map during combat. If you do, use the following guidelines for play: 

• Melee: 1 square • Very Close: 3 squares • Close: 6 squares • Far: 12 squares • Very Far: 13+ squares • Out of Range: Off the battlemap MOVEMENTUNDER PRESSURE When you’re under pressure or in danger and make an action roll, you can move to a location within Close range as part of that action. If you’re not already making an action roll, or if you want to move farther than your Close range, you need to succeed on an Agility Roll to safely reposition yourself. 

An adversary can move within Close range for free as part of an action, or within Very Far range as a separate action. 

AREAOF EFFECT Unless stated otherwise, all the targets of a group effect must be within Very Close range of a single origin point within your effect’s range. 

LINE OF SIGHT & COVER Unless stated otherwise, a ranged attacker must have line of sight to their intended target to make an attack roll. If a partial obstruction lies between the attacker and target, the target has cover. Attacks made through cover are rolled with disadvantage. If the obstruction is total, there is no line of sight. 

 CONDITIONS 

Conditions are effects that grant specific benefits or drawbacks to the target they are attached to. 

STANDARD CONDITIONS 

Daggerheart has three standard conditions: 

HIDDEN 

While you’re out of sight from all enemies and they don’t otherwise know your location, you gain the Hidden condition. Any rolls against a Hidden creature have disadvantage. After an adversary moves to where they would see you, you move into their line of sight, or you make an attack, you are no longer Hidden. 

RESTRAINED 

Restrained characters can’t move, but you can still take actions from their current position. 

VULNERABLE 

When a creature is Vulnerable, all rolls targeting them have advantage. 

Some features can apply special or unique conditions, which work as described in the feature text. 

Unless otherwise noted, the same condition can’t be applied more than once to the same target. 

TEMPORARY TAGS & SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

The temporary tag denotes a condition or effect that the affected creature can clear by making a move against it. When an affected PC makes a move to clear a temporary condition or effect, it normally requires a successful action roll using an appropriate trait. When an affected adversary makes a move to clear a temporary condition or effect, the GM puts the spotlight on the adversary and describes how they do it; this doesn’t require a roll but it does use up that adversary’s spotlight. 

Special conditions are only cleared when specific requirements are met, such as completing a certain action or using a particular item. The requirements for clearing these conditions are stated in the text of the effect that applies the condition. 

DOWNTIME 

Between conflicts, the party can take a rest to recover expended resources and deepen their bonds. During a rest, each PC can make up to two downtime moves. 

When the party rests, they must choose between a short rest and a long rest. If a party takes three short rests in a row, their next rest must be a long rest. 

If a short rest is interrupted, such as by an adversary's attack, the characters don’t gain its benefits. If a long rest is interrupted, the characters only gain the benefits of a short 

rest. 

A short rest lasts enough time for the party to catch its breath, about an hour in-world. Each player can move domain cards between their loadout and vault for free, then choose twice from the following list of downtime moves (players can choose the same move twice): 

• Tend to Wounds: Clear 1d4+Tier Hit Points for yourself or an ally. • Clear Stress: Clear 1d4+Tier Stress. • Repair Armor: Clear 1d4+Tier Armor Slots from your or an ally’s armor. • Prepare: Describe how you prepare yourself for the path ahead, then gain a Hope. If you choose to Prepare with one or more members of your party, you each gain 2 Hope. At the end of a short rest, any features or effects with a limited number of uses per rest refresh and any features or effects that last until your next rest expire. 

A long rest is when the characters make camp and relax or sleep for several in-game hours. Each player can move domain cards between their loadout and vault for free, then choose twice from the following list of downtime moves (players can choose the same move twice): 

• Tend to All Wounds: Clear all Hit Points for yourself or an ally. • Clear All Stress: Clear all Stress. • Repair All Armor: Clear all Armor Slots from your or an ally’s armor • Prepare: Describe how you prepare for the next day’s adventure, then gain a Hope. If you choose to Prepare with one or more members of your party, you each gain 2 Hope. • Work on a Project: With GM approval, a PC may pursue a long-term project, such as deciphering an ancient text or crafting a new weapon. The first time they start a new project, assign it a countdown. Each time a PC makes the Work on a Project move, they either advance their project’s countdown automatically or make an action roll to advance it (GM’s choice). At the end of a long rest, any features or effects with a limited number of uses per rest or per long rest refresh and any features or effects that last until your next rest or until your next long rest expire. 

DOWNTIME CONSEQUENCES On a short rest, the GM gains 1d4 Fear. On a long rest, they gain Fear equal to 1d4 + the number of PCs, and they can advance a long-term countdown of their choice. 

 DEATH 

When a PC marks their last Hit Point, they must make a death move by choosing one of the following options: 

• Blaze of Glory: Your character embraces death and goes out in a blaze of glory. Take one final action. It automatically critically succeeds (with GM approval), and then you cross through the veil of death. • Avoid Death: Your character avoids death and faces the consequences. They temporarily drop unconscious, and then you work with the GM to describe how the situation worsens. While unconscious, your character can’t move or act, and they can’t be targeted by an attack. They return to consciousness when an ally clears 1 or more of their marked Hit Points or when the party finishes a long rest. After your character falls unconscious, roll your Hope Die. If its value is equal to or less than your character’s level, they gain a scar: permanently cross out a Hope slot and work with the GM to determine its lasting narrative impact and how, if possible, it can be restored. If you ever cross out your last Hope slot, your character’s journey ends. • Risk It All: Roll your Duality Dice. If the Hope Die is higher, your character stays on their feet and clears a number of Hit Points or Stress equal to the value of the Hope Die (you can divide the Hope Die value between Hit Points and Stress however you’d prefer). If the Fear Die is higher, your character crosses through the veil of death. If the Duality Dice show matching results, your character stays up and clears all Hit Points and Stress. If your character dies, work with the GM before the next session to create a new character at the current level of the rest of the party. 

ADDITIONAL RULES 

The following rules apply to many aspects of the game. 

ROUNDING UP This game doesn’t use fractions; if you need to round to a whole number, round up unless otherwise specified. When in doubt, resolve any ambiguity in favor of the PCs. 

REROLLING DICE When a feature allows you to reroll a die, you always take the new result unless the feature specifically says otherwise. 

INCOMING DAMAGE Incoming damage means the total damage from a single attack or source, before Armor Slots are marked. 

SIMULTANEOUS EFFECTS If the resolution order of multiple effects is unclear, the person in control of the effects (player or GM) decides what order to resolve them in. 

STACKING EFFECTS Unless stated otherwise, all effects beside conditions and advantage/disadvantage can stack. 

ONGOING SPELL EFFECTS If an effect doesn’t have a listed mechanical expiration, it only ends when decided by the controlling player, the GM, or the demands of the fiction. 

SPENDING RESOURCES Unless an effect states otherwise, you can’t spend Hope or mark Stress multiple times on the same feature to increase or repeat its effects on the same roll. 

USING FEATURES AFTER A ROLL If a feature allows you to affect a roll after the result has been totaled, you can use it after the GM declares whether the roll succeeds or fails, but not after the consequences unfold or another roll is made. 

LEVELING UP 

Your party levels up whenever the GM decides you’ve reached a narrative milestone (usually about every 3 sessions). All party members level up at the same time. 

Daggerheart has 10 PC levels divided into 4 tiers: 

→ Tier 1 encompasses level 1 only. → Tier 2 encompasses levels 2–4. → Tier 3 encompasses levels 5–7. → Tier 4 encompasses levels 8–10. Your tier affects your damage thresholds, tier achievements, and access to advancements. 

STEP ONE 

TIER ACHIEVEMENTS 

Take any applicable tier achievements 

• At level 2, you gain a new Experience at +2 and permanently increase your Proficiency by 1. • At level 5, you gain a new Experience at +2, permanently increase your Proficiency by 1, and clear any marked traits. • At level 8, you gain a new Experience at +2, permanently increase your Proficiency by 1, and clear any marked traits.  STEP TWO 

ADVANCEMENTS 

Choose any two advancements with at least one unmarked slot from your tier or below. Options with multiple slots can be chosen more than once. When you choose an advancement, mark one of its slots. 

• When you choose to increase two unmarked character traits and mark them: Choose two unmarked character traits and gain a permanent +1 bonus to them. You can’t increase these stats again until the next tier (when your tier achievement allows you to clear those marks). • When you choose to permanently add 1 or more Hit Point slots: Darken the outline of the next rectangle in the Hit Point section of your character sheet in pen or permanent marker. • When you choose to permanently add 1 or more Stress slots: Darken the outline of the next rectangle in the Stress section of your character sheet in pen or permanent marker. • When you choose to increase an Experience: Gain a permanent +1 bonus to an Experience. • When you take an additional domain card: You can choose an additional domain card at or below your level or from your class’s domains. If you’ve multiclassed, you can instead select a card at or below half your level from your chosen multiclass domain. • When you choose to increase your Evasion: Gain a permanent +1 bonus to your Evasion. • When you choose to take an upgraded subclass card: Take the next card for your subclass. If you have only the foundation card, take a specialization; if you have a specialization already, take a mastery. Then cross out this tier’s multiclass option. • When you choose to increase your Proficiency: Fill in one of the open circles in the “Proficiency” section of your character sheet, then increase your weapon’s number of damage dice by 1. The black box around this advancement’s slots indicates you must spend two advancements and mark both level-up slots in order to take it as an option. • When you choose to multiclass: Choose an additional class, select one of its domains, and gain its class feature. Add the appropriate multiclass module to your character sheet and take the foundation card from one of its subclasses. Then cross out the “upgraded subclass” advancement option in this tier and all other “multiclass” advancement options on your character sheet. The black box around this advancement’s slots indicates you must spend two advancements and mark both level-up slots in order to take it as an option. STEP THREE 

DAMAGE THRESHOLDS 

Increase all damage thresholds by 1. 

STEP FOUR 

DOMAIN CARDS 

Acquire a new domain card at your level or lower from one of your class’s domains and add it to your loadout or vault. If your loadout is already full, you can’t add the new card to it until you move another into your vault. You can also exchange one domain card you’ve previously acquired for a different domain card of the same level or lower. 

MULTICLASSING 

Starting at level 5, you can choose multiclassing as an option when leveling up. When you multiclass, you choose an additional class, gain access to one of its domains, and acquire its class feature. Take the appropriate multiclass module and add it to the right side of your character sheet, then choose a foundation card from one of its subclasses. If your foundation cards specify different Spellcast traits, you can choose which one to apply when making a Spellcast roll. 

Whenever you have the option to acquire a new domain card, you can choose from cards at or below half your current level (rounded up) from the domain you chose when you selected the multiclass advancement. 

 EQUIPMENT 

Your equipped weapons and armor are the ones listed in the “Active Weapons” and “Active Armor” sections of your character sheet. Your character can only attack with weapons, benefit from armor, and gain features from items they have equipped. You can’t equip weapons or armor with a higher tier than you. 

PCs can carry up to two additional weapons in the “Inventory Weapon” areas of the character sheet. 

You can swap an Inventory Weapon with an Active Weapon of the same burden at no cost during a rest or moment of calm; otherwise, you must mark a Stress to do so. 

Your character can only have one Active Armor at a time. They can’t equip armor while in danger or under pressure; otherwise, they can equip or unequip armor without cost. Each armor has its own Armor Slots; if your character unequips their armor, track how many of its Armor Slots are marked. You can't carry armor in your inventory. When your character equips or unequips armor, recalculate your damage thresholds. 

WEAPONS 

All weapons have a tier, trait, range, damage die, damage type, and burden. Some weapons also have a feature. 

CATEGORY 

A weapon’s category specifies whether it is a Primary or Secondary weapon. Your character can only equip up to one weapon of each category at a time. 

TRAIT 

A weapon’s trait specifies which trait to use when making an attack roll with it. 

RANGE 

A weapon’s range specifies the maximum distance between the attacker and their target when attacking with it. 

DAMAGE 

A weapon’s damage indicates the size of the damage dice you roll on a successful attack with it; you roll a number of dice equal to your Proficiency. If the damage includes a flat modifier, this number is added to the total damage rolled, but is not altered or affected by Proficiency. 

DAMAGE TYPE A weapon’s damage type indicates whether it deals physical or magic damage. Weapons that deal magic damage can only be wielded by characters with a Spellcast trait. 

BURDEN 

A weapon’s burden indicates how many hands it occupies when equipped. Your character’s maximum burden is 2 hands. 

FEATURE 

A weapon’s feature is a special rule that stays in effect while the weapon is equipped. 

You can throw an equipped weapon at a target within Very Close range, making the attack roll with Finesse. On a success, deal damage as usual for that weapon. Once thrown, the weapon is no longer considered equipped. Until you retrieve and re-equip it, you can’t attack with it or benefit from its features. 

 PRIMARY WEAPON TABLES 

Players can choose one Tier 1 primary weapon during character creation. The GM can make other weapons available throughout the campaign as the PCs level up. 

TIER 1 (LEVEL 1) 

Physical Weapons 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Broadsword Agility Melee d8 phy One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Longsword Agility Melee d8+3 phy Two-Handed — Battleaxe Strength Melee d10+3 phy Two-Handed — 

Greatsword Strength Melee d10+3 phy Two-Handed Massive: −1 to Evasion; on a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Mace Strength Melee d8+1 phy One-Handed — 

Warhammer Strength Melee d12+3 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Dagger Finesse Melee d8+1 phy One-Handed — 

Quarterstaff Instinct Melee d10+3 phy Two-Handed — Cutlass Presence Melee d8+1 phy One-Handed — 

Rapier Presence Melee d8 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range. Halberd Strength Very Close d10+2 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse 

Spear Finesse Very Close d10+2 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Shortbow Agility Far d6+3 phy Two-Handed — 

Crossbow Finesse Far d6+1 phy One-Handed — Longbow Agility Very Far d8+3 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse TIER 1 (LEVEL 1) Magic Weapons All magic weapons require a Spellcast trait Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Arcane Strength Melee d10+3 mag Two-Handed — Gauntlets 

Hallowed Axe Strength Melee d8+1 mag One-Handed — Glowing Rings Agility Very Close d10+1 mag Two-Handed — 

Hand Runes Instinct Very Close d10 mag One-Handed — Returning Finesse Close d8 mag One-Handed Returning: When this weapon is thrown within its Blade range, it appears in your hand immediately after the attack. 

Shortstaff Instinct Close d8+1 mag One-Handed — Dualstaff Instinct Far d6+3 mag Two-Handed — 

Scepter Presence Far d6 mag Two-Handed Versatile: This weapon can also be used with these statistics—Presence, Melee, d8. Wand Knowledge Far d6+1 mag One-Handed — 

Greatstaff Knowledge Very Far d6 mag Two-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result.  TIER 2 (LEVELS 2–4) 

Physical Weapons 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Improved Agility Melee d8+3 phy One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Broadsword Improved Agility Melee d8+6 phy Two-Handed — Longsword Improved Strength Melee d10+6 phy Two-Handed — Battleaxe Improved Strength Melee d10+6 phy Two-Handed Massive: −1 to Evasion; on a successful attack, roll Greatsword an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Improved Mace Strength Melee d8+4 phy One-Handed — Improved Strength Melee d12+6 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Warhammer Improved Finesse Melee d8+4 phy One-Handed — Dagger Improved Instinct Melee d10+6 phy Two-Handed — Quarterstaff Improved Presence Melee d8+4 phy One-Handed — Cutlass Improved Presence Melee d8+3 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Rapier Stress to target another creature within range. Improved Strength Very Close d10+5 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Halberd Improved Spear Finesse Very Close d10+5 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Improved Agility Far d6+6 phy Two-Handed — Shortbow Improved Finesse Far d6+4 phy One-Handed — Crossbow Improved Agility Very Far d8+6 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Longbow Gilded Falchion Strength Melee d10+4 phy One-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Knuckle Blades Strength Melee d10+6 phy Two-Handed Brutal: When you roll the maximum value on a damage die, roll an additional damage die. Urok Finesse Melee d8+3 phy One-Handed Deadly: When you deal Severe damage, the target Broadsword must mark an additional HP. Bladed Whip Agility Very Close d8+3 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range. Steelforged Strength Very Close d8+4 phy Two-Handed Scary: On a successful attack, the target must mark Halberd a Stress. War Scythe Finesse Very Close d8+5 phy Two-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Blunderbuss Finesse Close d8+6 phy Two-Handed Reloading: After you make an attack, roll a d6. On a result of 1, you must mark a Stress to reload this weapon before you can fire it again. Greatbow Strength Far d6+6 phy Two-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Finehair Bow Agility Very Far d6+5 phy Two-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls 

 TIER 2 (LEVELS 2–4) 

Magic Weapons 

All magic weapons require a Spellcast trait 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Improved Arcane Strength Melee d10+6 mag Two-Handed — Gauntlets Improved Strength Melee d8+4 mag One-Handed — Hallowed Axe Improved Agility Very Close d10+5 mag Two-Handed — Glowing Rings Improved Hand Instinct Very Close d10+3 mag One-Handed — Runes Improved Finesse Close d8+3 mag One-Handed Returning: When this weapon is thrown within its Returning Blade range, it appears in your hand immediately after the attack. Improved Instinct Close d8+4 mag One-Handed — Shortstaff Improved Instinct Far d6+6 mag Two-Handed — Dualstaff Improved Presence Far d6+3 mag Two-Handed Versatile: This weapon can also be used with these Scepter statistics—Presence, Melee, d8+3. Improved Wand Knowledge Far d6+4 mag One-Handed — Improved Knowledge Very Far d6+3 mag Two-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional Greatstaff damage die and discard the lowest result. Ego Blade Agility Melee d12+4 mag One-Handed Pompous: You must have a Presence of 0 or lower to use this weapon. Casting Sword Strength Melee d10+4 mag Two-Handed Versatile: This weapon can also be used with these statistics—Knowledge, Far, d6+3. Devouring Finesse Melee d8+4 mag One-Handed Scary: On a successful attack, the target must mark Dagger a Stress. Hammer of Exota Instinct Melee d8+6 mag Two-Handed Eruptive: On a successful attack against a target within Melee range, all other adversaries within Very Close range must succeed on a reaction roll (14) or take half damage. Yutari Bloodbow Finesse Far d6+4 mag Two-Handed Brutal: When you roll the maximum value on a damage die, roll an additional damage die. Elder Bow Instinct Far d6+4 mag Two-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Scepter of Elias Presence Far d6+3 mag One-Handed Invigorating: On a successful attack, roll a d4. On a result of 4, clear a Stress. Wand of Presence Far d6+4 mag One-Handed Persuasive: Before you make a Presence Roll, you Enthrallment can mark a Stress to gain a +2 bonus to the result. Keeper's Staff Knowledge Far d6+4 mag Two-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls 

 TIER 3 (LEVELS 5–7) 

Physical Weapons 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Advanced Agility Melee d8+6 phy One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Broadsword 

Advanced Longsword Agility Melee d8+9 phy Two-Handed — Advanced Strength Melee d10+9 phy Two-Handed — Battleaxe 

Advanced Greatsword Strength Melee d10+9 phy Two-Handed Massive: −1 to Evasion; on a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Advanced Strength Melee d8+7 phy One-Handed — Mace 

Advanced Warhammer Strength Melee d12+9 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Advanced Finesse Melee d8+7 phy One-Handed — Dagger 

Advanced Quarterstaff Instinct Melee d10+9 phy Two-Handed — Advanced Presence Melee d8+7 phy One-Handed — Cutlass 

Advanced Rapier Presence Melee d8+6 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range. Advanced Strength Very Close d10+8 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Halberd 

Advanced Spear Finesse Very Close d10+8 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Advanced Agility Far d6+9 phy Two-Handed — Shortbow 

Advanced Crossbow Finesse Far d6+7 phy One-Handed — Advanced Agility Very Far d8+9 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Longbow 

Flickerfly Blade Agility Melee d8+5 phy One-Handed Sharpwing: Gain a bonus to your damage rolls equal to your Agility. Bravesword Strength Melee d12+7 phy Two-Handed Brave: −1 to Evasion; +3 to Severe damage threshold 

Hammer of Wrath Strength Melee d10+7 phy Two-Handed Devastating: Before you make an attack roll, you can mark a Stress to use a d20 as your damage die. Labrys Axe Strength Melee d10+7 phy Two-Handed Protective: +1 to Armor Score 

Meridian Cutlass Presence Melee d10+5 phy One-Handed Dueling: When there are no other creatures within Close range of the target, gain advantage on your attack roll against them. 

Retractable Presence Melee d10+7 phy One-Handed Retractable: The blade can be hidden in the hilt to Saber avoid detection. 

Double Flail Agility Very Close d10+8 phy Two-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Talon Blades Finesse Close d10+7 phy Two-Handed Brutal: When you roll the maximum value on a damage die, roll an additional damage die. 

Black Powder Revolver Finesse Far d6+8 phy One-Handed Reloading: After you make an attack, roll a d6. On a result of 1, you must mark a Stress to reload this weapon before you can fire it again. 

Spiked Bow Agility Very Far d6+7 phy Two-Handed Versatile: This weapon can also be used with these statistics—Agility, Melee, d10+5. 

 TIER 4 (LEVELS 8–10) 

Physical Weapons 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Legendary Agility Melee d8+9 phy One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Broadsword Legendary Agility Melee d8+12 phy Two-Handed — Longsword Legendary Battleaxe Strength Melee d10+12 phy Two-Handed — Legendary Strength Melee d10+12 phy Two-Handed Massive: −1 to Evasion; on a successful attack, Greatsword roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Legendary Mace Strength Melee d8+10 phy One-Handed — Legendary Strength Melee d12+12 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Warhammer Legendary Dagger Finesse Melee d8+10 phy One-Handed — Legendary Instinct Melee d10+12 phy Two-Handed — Quarterstaff Legendary Cutlass Presence Melee d8+10 phy One-Handed — Legendary Rapier Presence Melee d8+9 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range. Legendary Halberd Strength Very Close d10+11 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Legendary Spear Finesse Very Close d10+11 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Legendary Shortbow Agility Far d6+12 phy Two-Handed — Legendary Crossbow Finesse Far d6+10 phy One-Handed — Legendary Longbow Agility Very Far d8+12 phy Two-Handed Cumbersome: −1 to Finesse Dual-Ended Sword Agility Melee d10+9 phy Two-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range. Impact Gauntlet Strength Melee d10+11 phy One-Handed Concussive: On a successful attack, you can spend a Hope to knock the target back to Far range. Sledge Axe Strength Melee d12+13 phy Two-Handed Destructive: −1 to Agility; on a successful attack, all adversaries within Very Close range must mark a Stress. Curved Dagger Finesse Melee d8+9 phy One-Handed Serrated: When you roll a 1 on a damage die, it deals 8 damage instead. Extended Polearm Finesse Very Close d8+10 phy Two-Handed Long: This weapon’s attack targets all adversaries in a line within range. Swinging Ropeblade Presence Close d8+9 phy Two-Handed Grappling: On a successful attack, you can spend a Hope to Restrain the target or pull them into Melee range with you. Ricochet Axes Agility Far d6+11 phy Two-Handed Bouncing: Mark 1 or more Stress to hit that many targets in range of the attack. Aantari Bow Finesse Far d6+11 phy Two-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Hand Cannon Finesse Very Far d6+12 phy One-Handed Reloading: After you make an attack, roll a d6. On a 1, you must mark a Stress to reload this weapon before you can fire it again. 

 TIER 4 (LEVELS 8–10) 

Magic Weapons 

All magic weapons require a Spellcast trait 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Legendary Strength Melee d10+12 mag Two-Handed — Arcane Gauntlets 

Legendary Hallowed Axe Strength Melee d8+10 mag One-Handed — Legendary Agility Very Close d10+11 mag Two-Handed — Glowing Rings 

Legendary Hand Runes Instinct Very Close d10+9 mag One-Handed — Legendary Finesse Close d8+9 mag One-Handed Returning: When this weapon is thrown within its Returning Blade range, it appears in your hand immediately after the attack. 

Legendary Shortstaff Instinct Close d8+10 mag One-Handed — Legendary Instinct Far d8+12 mag Two-Handed — Dualstaff 

Legendary Scepter Presence Far d6+9 mag Two-Handed Versatile: This weapon can also be used with these statistics—Presence, Melee, d8+6. Legendary Wand Knowledge Far d6+10 mag One-Handed — 

Legendary Greatstaff Knowledge Very Far d6+9 mag Two-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Sword of Light & Strength Melee d10+11 mag Two-Handed Hot: This weapon cuts through solid material. Flame 

Siphoning Gauntlets Presence Melee d10+9 mag Two-Handed Lifestealing: On a successful attack, roll a d6. On a result of 6, clear a Hit Point or clear a Stress. Midas Scythe Knowledge Melee d10+9 mag Two-Handed Greedy: Spend a handful of gold to gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency on a damage roll. 

Floating Bladeshards Instinct Close d8+9 mag One-Handed Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. Bloodstaff Instinct Far d20+7 mag Two-Handed Painful: Each time you make a successful attack, you must mark a Stress. 

Thistlebow Instinct Far d6+13 mag Two-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Wand of Essek Knowledge Far d8+13 mag One-Handed Timebending: You can choose the target of your attack after making your attack roll. 

Magus Revolver Finesse Very Far d6+13 mag One-Handed Reloading: After you make an attack, roll a d6. On a result of 1, you must mark a Stress to reload this weapon before you can fire it again. 

Fusion Gloves Knowledge Very Far d6+9 mag Two-Handed Bonded: Gain a bonus to your damage rolls equal to your level. 

 SECONDARY WEAPON TABLES 

Players can choose one Tier 1 secondary weapon during character creation. The GM can make other weapons available throughout the campaign as the PCs level up. 

TIER 1 (LEVEL 1) 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Shortsword Agility Melee d8 phy One-Handed Paired: +2 to primary weapon damage to targets within Melee range 

Round Shield Strength Melee d4 phy One-Handed Protective: +1 to Armor Score Tower Shield Strength Melee d6 phy One-Handed Barrier: +2 to Armor Score; −1 to Evasion 

Small Dagger Finesse Melee d8 phy One-Handed Paired: +2 to primary weapon damage to targets within Melee range Whip Presence Very Close d6 phy One-Handed Startling: Mark a Stress to crack the whip and force all adversaries within Melee range back to Close range. 

Grappler Finesse Close d6 phy One-Handed Hooked: On a successful attack, you can pull the target into Melee range. Hand Crossbow Finesse Far d6+1 phy One-Handed — TIER 2 (LEVELS 2–4) Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Improved Agility Melee d8+2 phy One-Handed Paired: +3 to primary weapon damage to targets within Shortsword Melee range 

Improved Round Shield Strength Melee d4+2 phy One-Handed Protective: +2 to Armor Score Improved Strength Melee d6+2 phy One-Handed Barrier: +3 to Armor Score; −1 to Evasion Tower Shield 

Improved Small Dagger Finesse Melee d8+2 phy One-Handed Paired: +3 to primary weapon damage to targets within Melee range Improved Presence Very Close d6+2 phy One-Handed Startling: Mark a Stress to crack the whip and force all Whip adversaries within Melee range back to Close range. 

Improved Grappler Finesse Close d6+2 phy One-Handed Hooked: On a successful attack, you can pull the target into Melee range. Improved Finesse Far d6+3 phy One-Handed — Hand Crossbow 

Spiked Shield Strength Melee d6+2 phy One-Handed Double Duty: +1 to Armor Score; +1 to primary weapon damage within Melee range Parrying Finesse Melee d6+2 phy One-Handed Parry: When you are attacked, roll this weapon's damage Dagger dice. If any of the attacker's damage dice rolled the same value as your dice, the matching results are discarded from the attacker's damage dice before the damage you take is totaled. 

Returning Axe Agility Close d6+4 phy One-Handed Returning: When this weapon is thrown within its range, it appears in your hand immediately after the attack.  TIER 3 (LEVELS 5–7) 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Advanced Shortsword Agility Melee d8+4 phy One-Handed Paired: +4 to primary weapon damage to targets within Melee range Advanced Round Shield Strength Melee d4+4 phy One-Handed Protective: +3 to Armor Score Advanced Strength Melee d6+4 phy One-Handed Barrier: +4 to Armor Score; −1 to Evasion Tower Shield 

Advanced Small Dagger Finesse Melee d8+4 phy One-Handed Paired: +4 to primary weapon damage to targets within Melee range Advanced Presence Very Close d6+4 phy One-Handed Startling: Mark a Stress to crack the whip and force all Whip adversaries within Melee range back to Close range. 

Advanced Grappler Finesse Close d6+4 phy One-Handed Hooked: On a successful attack, you can pull the target into Melee range. Advanced Finesse Far d6+5 phy One-Handed — Hand Crossbow 

Buckler Agility Melee d4+4 phy One-Handed Deflecting: When you are attacked, you can mark an Armor Slot to gain a bonus to your Evasion equal to your Armor Score against the attack. 

Powered Knowledge Close d6+4 phy One-Handed Charged: Mark a Stress to gain a +1 bonus to your Gauntlet Proficiency on a primary weapon attack. 

Hand Sling Finesse Very Far d6+4 phy One-Handed Versatile: This weapon can also be used with these statistics—Finesse, Close, d8+4. TIER 4 (LEVELS 8–10) 

Name Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Legendary Agility Melee d8+6 phy One-Handed Paired: +5 to primary weapon damage to targets within Shortsword Melee range 

Legendary Round Shield Strength Melee d4+6 phy One-Handed Protective: +4 to Armor Score Legendary Strength Melee d6+6 phy One-Handed Barrier: +5 to Armor Score; −1 to Evasion. Tower Shield 

Legendary Small Dagger Finesse Melee d8+6 phy One-Handed Paired: +5 to primary weapon damage to targets within Melee range Legendary Presence Very Close d6+6 phy One-Handed Startling: Mark a Stress to crack the whip and force all Whip adversaries within Melee range back to Close range. 

Legendary Grappler Finesse Close d6+6 phy One-Handed Hooked: On a successful attack, you can pull the target into Melee range. Legendary Finesse Far d6+7 phy One-Handed — Hand Crossbow 

Braveshield Agility Melee d4+6 phy One-Handed Sheltering: When you mark an Armor Slot, it reduces damage for you and all allies within Melee range of you who took the same damage. Knuckle Strength Melee d6+8 phy One-Handed Doubled Up: When you make an attack with your primary 

Claws weapon, you can deal damage to another target within Melee range. 

Primer Shard Instinct Very Close d4 phy One-Handed Locked On: On a successful attack, your next attack against the same target with your primary weapon automatically succeeds. 

 Combat Wheelchair 

By Mark Thompson 

The combat wheelchair is a ruleset designed to help you play a wheelchair user in Daggerheart. This section provides mechanics and narrative guidance for you to work from, but feel free to adapt the flavor text to best suit your character. Have fun with your character’s wheelchair design, and make it as unique or tailored to them as you please. 

ACTION AND MOVEMENT 

When describing how your character moves, you can use descriptions such as the following: 

• “I roll over to the door to see if it’s open.” • “I wheel myself over to the group to ask what’s going on.” • “I pull my brakes and skid to a halt, turning in my seat to level my bow at the intruder.” CONSEQUENCES 

Here are some ways you might describe complications you encounter when your character uses their wheelchair: 

“I pull my brakes, but I don’t think to account for the loose gravel on the ground.” 

“I hit a patch of ice awkwardly and am sent skidding out past my target.” 

“I go to push off in pursuit, but one of my front caster wheels snags on a crack in the pavement, stalling me for a moment.” 

GMs should avoid breaking a character's wheelchair or otherwise removing it from play as a consequence, unless everyone at the table, especially the wheelchair user’s player, gives their approval. 

EVASION 

Your character is assumed to be skilled in moving their wheelchair and navigating numerous situations in it. As a result, the only wheelchair that gives a penalty to a PC's Evasion is the Heavy Frame model. 

BURDEN 

All wheelchairs can be maneuvered using one or two hands outside of combat. However, when being used as a weapon, the chair is restricted to requiring one or two hands to perform attacks, depending on the model you’ve chosen. If you’re playing a character who has limited to no mobility in their arms, their wheelchair can be attuned to them by magical means. For example, your character might use a psychic link to guide the chair around like a pseudo-electric wheelchair. All the rules presented here can be tailored and adapted to any character's needs. 

CHOOSING YOUR MODEL 

All combat wheelchairs are equipped as Primary Weapons. There are three models of wheelchair available: light, heavy, and arcane. You’re encouraged to consider the type of character you’re playing and the class they belong to, then choose the model that best matches that character concept. 

Light Frame Models 

Though tough, these wheelchairs have light frames that allow the chair to move with your character in more acrobatic ways. These models are best suited to adventurers who rely on speed and flexibility. 

Name Tier Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Light-Frame 1 Agility Melee d8 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Wheelchair Stress to target another creature within range. 

Improved Light-Frame Wheelchair 2 Agility Melee d8+3 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range. Advanced 3 Agility Melee d8+6 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Light-Frame Stress to target another creature within range. Wheelchair 

Legendary Light-Frame Wheelchair 4 Agility Melee d8+9 phy One-Handed Quick: When you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to target another creature within range.  Heavy Frame Models 

These wheelchairs have bulky and heavier frames, allowing the chair to lend its weight to your character’s attacks. It also makes them a bigger target. 

Name Tier Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Heavy-Frame 1 Strength Melee d12+3 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Wheelchair 

Improved Heavy-Frame Wheelchair 2 Strength Melee d12+6 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Advanced 3 Strength Melee d12+9 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Heavy-Frame Wheelchair 

Legendary Heavy-Frame Wheelchair 4 Strength Melee d12+12 phy Two-Handed Heavy: −1 to Evasion Arcane Frame Models 

These wheelchairs have frames that are attuned to your character and their magic, allowing them to channel their spells through the chair. Unlike other primary magic weapons, the arcane-frame model doesn’t specify a trait to use when making an attack with it. Instead, you use the Spellcast trait indicated by your subclass. 

Name Tier Trait Range Damage Burden Feature 

Arcane-Frame 1 Spellcast Far d6 mag One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Wheelchair 

Improved Arcane-Frame Wheelchair 2 Spellcast Far d6+3 mag One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Advanced 3 Spellcast Far d6+6 mag One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls Arcane-Frame Wheelchair 

Legendary Arcane-Frame Wheelchair 4 Spellcast Far d6+9 mag One-Handed Reliable: +1 to attack rolls  ARMOR 

Every armor has a name, base damage thresholds, and a base Armor Score. Some armor also has a feature. 

• An armor’s base armor score indicates how many Armor Slots it provides its wearer before additional bonuses are added to calculate their total Armor Score. A PC’s Armor Score can’t exceed 12. • An armor’s base thresholds determine its wearer’s major and severe damage thresholds before adding bonuses to calculate their final damage thresholds. • An armor’s feature is a special rule that stays in effect while the armor is equipped. ARMOR TABLES 

TIER 1 (LEVEL 1) 

Name 

Base Base Thresholds Score 

While unarmored, your character’s base Armor Score is 0, their Major threshold is equal to their level, and their Severe threshold is equal to twice their level. 

REDUCING INCOMING DAMAGE When you take damage, you can mark one Armor Slot to reduce the number of Hit Points you would mark by one. If your character has an Armor Score of 0, you can’t mark Armor Slots. If an effect temporarily increases your Armor Score, it increases your available Armor Slots by the same amount; when the effect ends, so does the availability of these Armor Slots. 

Feature 

Gambeson Armor 5 / 11 3 Flexible: +1 to Evasion 

Leather Armor 6 / 13 3 — Chainmail Armor 7 / 15 4 Heavy: −1 to Evasion 

Full Plate Armor 8 / 17 4 Very Heavy: −2 to Evasion; −1 to Agility TIER 2 (LEVELS 2–4) Base Base Name Thresholds Score Feature 

Improved Gambeson Armor 7 / 16 4 Flexible: +1 to Evasion Improved Leather Armor 9 / 20 4 — Improved Chainmail Armor 11 / 24 5 Heavy: −1 to Evasion 

Improved Full Plate Armor 13 / 28 5 Very Heavy: −2 to Evasion; −1 to Agility Elundrian Chain Armor 9 / 21 4 Warded: You reduce incoming magic damage by your Armor Score before applying it to your damage thresholds. 

Harrowbone Armor 9 / 21 4 Resilient: Before you mark your last Armor Slot, roll a d6. On a result of 6, reduce the severity by one threshold without marking an Armor Slot. 

Irontree Breastplate Armor 9 / 20 4 Reinforced: When you mark your last Armor Slot, increase your damage thresholds by +2 until you clear at least 1 Armor Slot. 

Runetan Floating Armor 9 / 20 4 Shifting: When you are targeted for an attack, you can mark an Armor Slot to give the attack roll against you disadvantage. Tyris Soft Armor 8 / 18 5 Quiet: You gain a +2 bonus to rolls you make to move silently. 

Rosewild Armor 11 / 23 5 Hopeful: When you would spend a Hope, you can mark an Armor Slot instead.  TIER 3 (LEVELS 5–7) Base Base Name Thresholds Score Feature 

Advanced Gambeson Armor 9 / 23 5 Flexible: +1 to Evasion 

Advanced Leather Armor 11 / 27 5 — Advanced Chainmail Armor 13 / 31 6 Heavy: −1 to Evasion 

Advanced Full Plate Armor 15 / 35 6 Very Heavy: −2 to Evasion; −1 to Agility Bellamoi Fine Armor 11 / 27 5 Gilded: +1 to Presence 

Dragonscale Armor 11 / 27 5 Impenetrable: Once per short rest, when you would mark your last Hit Point, you can instead mark a Stress. 

Spiked Plate Armor 10 / 25 5 Sharp: On a successful attack against a target within Melee range, add a d4 to the damage roll. 

Bladefare Armor 16 / 39 6 Physical: You can’t mark an Armor Slot to reduce magic damage. Monett’s Cloak 16 / 39 6 Magic: You can’t mark an Armor Slot to reduce physical damage. 

Runes of Fortification 17 / 43 6 Painful: Each time you mark an Armor Slot, you must mark a Stress. TIER 4 (LEVELS 8–10) Base Base Name Thresholds Score Feature 

Legendary Gambeson Armor 11 / 32 6 Flexible: +1 to Evasion Legendary Leather Armor 13 / 36 6 — Legendary Chainmail Armor 15 / 40 7 Heavy: −1 to Evasion 

Legendary Full Plate Armor 17 / 44 7 Very Heavy: −2 to Evasion; −1 to Agility Dunamis Silkchain 13 / 36 7 Timeslowing: Mark an Armor Slot to roll a d4 and add its result as a bonus to your Evasion against an incoming attack. 

Channeling Armor 13 / 36 5 Channeling: +1 to Spellcast Rolls Emberwoven Armor 13 / 36 6 Burning: When an adversary attacks you within Melee range, they mark a Stress. 

Full Fortified Armor 15 / 40 4 Fortified: When you mark an Armor Slot, you reduce the severity of an attack by two thresholds instead of one. Veritas Opal Armor 13 / 36 6 Truthseeking: This armor glows when another creature within Close range tells a lie. 

Savior Chainmail 18 / 48 8 Difficult: −1 to all character traits and Evasion  LOOT 

Loot comprises any consumables or reusable items the party acquires. Items can be used until sold, discarded, or lost. To generate a random item, choose a rarity, roll the designated dice, and match the total to the item in the table: 

• Common: 1d12 or 2d12 • Rare: 3d12 or 4d12 • Uncommon: 2d12 or 3d12 • Legendary: 4d12 or 5d12 ROLL Loot description 

01 Premium Bedroll During downtime, you automatically clear a Stress. 

02 Piper Whistle This handcrafted whistle has a distinctive sound. When you blow this whistle, its piercing tone can be heard within a 1-mile radius. 

03 Charging Quiver When you succeed on an attack with an arrow stored in this quiver, gain a bonus to the damage roll equal to your current tier. 

04 Alistair’s Torch You can light this magic torch at will. The flame’s light fills a much larger space than it should, enough to illuminate a cave bright as day. 05 Speaking Orbs This pair of orbs allows any creatures holding them to communicate with each other across any distance. 

06 Manacles This pair of locking cuffs comes with a key. 07 Arcane Cloak A creature with a Spellcast trait wearing this cloak can adjust its color, texture, and size at will. 

08 Woven Net You can make a Finesse Roll using this net to trap a small creature. A trapped target can break free with a successful Attack Roll (16). 

09 Fire Jar You can pour out the strange liquid contents of this jar to instantly produce fire. The contents regenerate when you take a long rest. 

10 Suspended Rod This flat rod is inscribed with runes. When you activate the rod, it is immediately suspended in place. Until the rod is deactivated, it can’t move, doesn’t abide by the rules of gravity, and remains in place. 

11 Glamour Stone Activate this pebble-sized stone to memorize the appearance of someone you can see. Spend a Hope to magically recreate this guise on yourself as an illusion. 

12 Empty Chest This magical chest appears empty. When you speak a specific trigger word or action and open the chest, you can see the items stored within it. 

13 Companion Case This case can fit a small animal companion. While the companion is inside, the animal and case are immune to all damage and harmful effects. 

14 Piercing Arrows Three times per rest when you succeed on an attack with one of these arrows, you can add your Proficiency to the damage roll. 

15 Valorstone You can attach this stone to armor that doesn’t already have a feature. The armor gains the following feature. Resilient: Before you mark your last Armor Slot, roll a d6. On a result of 6, reduce the severity by one threshold without marking an Armor Slot. 

16 Skeleton Key When you use this key to open a locked door, you gain advantage on the Finesse Roll. Arcane Prism Position this prism in a location of your choosing and activate it. All allies within Close range of it gain a +1 bonus to their Spellcast Rolls. While activated, the prism can’t be moved. Once the prism is deactivated, it can’t be activated again until your next long rest. 

18 Minor Stamina Potion Recipe As a downtime move, you can use the bone of a creature to craft a Minor Stamina Potion. Minor Health As a downtime move, you can use a vial of blood to craft a Minor Health Potion. Potion Recipe 

20 Homing Compasses These two compasses point toward each other no matter how far apart they are. Corrector Sprite This tiny sprite sits in the curve of your ear canal and whispers helpful advice during combat. Once per short rest, you can gain advantage on an attack roll. 

22 Gecko Gloves You can climb up vertical surfaces and across ceilings. Lorekeeper You can store the name and details of up to three hostile creatures inside this book. You gain a +1 bonus to action rolls against those creatures. 

 ROLL Loot description 

24 Vial of Darksmoke Recipe As a downtime move, you can mark a Stress to craft a Vial of Darksmoke. 25 

Bloodstone You can attach this stone to a weapon that doesn’t already have a feature. The weapon gains the following feature. Brutal: When you roll the maximum value on a damage die, roll an additional damage die. 

26 Greatstone You can attach this stone to a weapon that doesn’t already have a feature. The weapon gains the following feature. Powerful: On a successful attack, roll an additional damage die and discard the lowest result. 

27 Glider While falling, you can mark a Stress to deploy this small parachute and glide safely to the ground. 

28 Ring of Silence Spend a Hope to activate this ring. Your footsteps are silent until your next rest. 29 Calming Pendant When you would mark your last Stress, roll a d6. On a result of 5 or higher, don’t mark it. 

30 Dual Flask This flask can hold two different liquids. You can swap between them by flipping a small switch on the flask’s side. 

31 Bag of Ficklesand You can convince this small bag of sand to be much heavier or lighter with a successful Presence Roll (10). Additionally, on a successful Finesse Roll (10), you can blow a bit of sand into a target’s face to make them temporarily Vulnerable. 

32 Ring of Resistance Once per long rest, you can activate this ring after a successful attack against you to halve the damage. 

33 Phoenix Feather If you have at least one Phoenix Feather on you when you fall unconscious, you gain a +1 bonus to the roll you make to determine whether you gain a scar. 

34 Box of Many Goods Once per long rest, you can open this small box and roll a d12. On a result of 1–6, it’s empty. On a result of 7–10, it contains one random common consumable. On a result of 11–12, it contains two random common consumables. 

35 Airblade Charm You can attach this charm to a weapon with a Melee range. Three times per rest, you can activate the charm and attack a target within Close range. 

36 Portal Seed You can plant this seed in the ground to grow a portal in that spot. The portal is ready to use in 24 hours. You can use this portal to travel to any other location where you planted a portal seed. A portal can be destroyed by dealing any amount of magic damage to it. 

37 Paragon’s Chain As a downtime move, you can meditate on an ideal or principle you hold dear and focus your will into this chain. Once per long rest, you can spend a Hope to roll a d20 as your Hope Die for rolls that directly align with that principle. 

38 Elusive Amulet Once per long rest, you can activate this amulet to become Hidden until you move. While Hidden in this way, you remain unseen even if an adversary moves to where they would normally see you. 

39 Hopekeeper During a long rest, if you have 6 Hope, you can spend a Hope to imbue this locket with your bountiful resolve. Locket When you have 0 Hope, you can use the locket to immediately gain a Hope. The locket must be re-imbued before it can be used this way again. 

40 Infinite Bag When you store items in this bag, they are kept in a pocket dimension that never runs out of space. You can retrieve an item at any time. 41 Stride Relic You gain a +1 bonus to your Agility. You can only carry one relic. 

42 Bolster Relic You gain a +1 bonus to your Strength. You can only carry one relic. 43 Control Relic You gain a +1 bonus to your Finesse. You can only carry one relic. 

44 Attune Relic You gain a +1 bonus to your Instinct. You can only carry one relic. 45 

Charm Relic You gain a +1 bonus to your Presence. You can only carry one relic. 

46 Enlighten Relic You gain a +1 bonus to your Knowledge. You can only carry one relic. 47 Honing Relic You gain a +1 bonus to an Experience of your choice. You can only carry one relic. 

48 Flickerfly Pendant While you carry this pendant, your weapons with a Melee range that deal physical damage have a gossamer sheen and can attack targets within Very Close range. 

49 Lakestrider You can walk on the surface of water as if it were soft ground. Boots 

 ROLL Loot description 

When you sculpt this ball of clay into a clay animal companion, it behaves as that animal. For example, a clay spider can spin clay webs, while a clay bird can fly. The clay companion retains memory and identity across different shapes, but they can adopt new mannerisms with each form. 

50 Clay Companion 51 Mythic Dust As a downtime move, you can use a handful of fine gold dust to craft Mythic Dust. Recipe 

52 Shard of Memory Once per long rest, you can spend 2 Hope to recall a domain card from your vault instead of paying its Recall Cost. 53 Gem of Alacrity You can attach this gem to a weapon, allowing you to use your Agility when making an attack with that weapon. 

54 Gem of Might You can attach this gem to a weapon, allowing you to use your Strength when making an attack with that weapon. 

55 Gem of Precision You can attach this gem to a weapon, allowing you to use your Finesse when making an attack with that weapon. 

56 Gem of Insight You can attach this gem to a weapon, allowing you to use your Instinct when making an attack with that weapon. 

57 Gem of Audacity You can attach this gem to a weapon, allowing you to use your Presence when making an attack with that weapon. 

58 Gem of Sagacity You can attach this gem to a weapon, allowing you to use your Knowledge when making an attack with that weapon. 

59 Ring of Once per session, when the GM spends a Fear, you can spend 4 Hope to cancel the effects of that spent Fear. Unbreakable Resolve 

60 Belt of Unity Once per session, you can spend 5 Hope to lead a Tag Team Roll with three PCs instead of two. Consumables 

Consumables are loot that can only be used once. You can hold up to five of each consumable at a time. Using a consumable doesn’t require a roll unless required by the GM or the demands of the fiction. 

To generate a random consumable, choose a rarity, roll the designated dice, and match the total to the item in the table: 

• Common: 1d12 or 2d12 • Rare: 3d12 or 4d12 • Uncommon: 2d12 or 3d12 • Legendary: 4d12 or 5d12 ROLL LOOT description

ROLL LOOT description 

09 Grindletooth You can apply this venom to a weapon 

Stride Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your next 

Venom that deals physical damage to add a 

Agility Roll. 

02 Bolster Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your next Strength Roll. 03 Control Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your next Finesse Roll. d6 to your next damage roll with that weapon. 10 Varik Leaves You can eat these paired leaves to immediately gain 2 Hope. 06 Enlighten Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your next Knowledge Roll. 04 Attune Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your next Instinct Roll. 11 Vial of Moondrip 

05 Charm Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your next Presence Roll. 

12 Unstable Arcane Shard Minor Health Clear 1d4 HP. 13 Potion of Potion Stability 

08 Minor Stamina Potion Clear 1d4 Stress. 14 Improved Grindletooth Venom When you drink the contents of this vial, you can see in total darkness until your next rest. 

You can make a Finesse Roll to throw this shard at a group of adversaries within Far range. Targets you succeed against take 1d20 magic damage. 

You can drink this potion to choose one additional downtime move. 

You can apply this venom to a weapon that deals physical damage to add a d8 to your next damage roll with that weapon. 

 ROLL LOOT description 

15 

Morphing Clay 

16 Vial of Darksmoke 17 

Jumping Root 

You can spend a Hope to use this clay, altering your face enough to make you unrecognizable until your next rest. 

When an adversary attacks you, use this vial and roll a number of d6s equal to your Agility. Add the highest result to your Evasion against the attack. 

Eat this root to leap up to Far range once without needing to roll. 

18 Snap Powder Mark a Stress and clear a HP. 19 Health Potion Clear 1d4+1 HP. 

20 Stamina Potion Clear 1d4+1 Stress. 21 Armor Stitcher You can use this stitcher to spend any number of Hope and clear that many Armor Slots. 

22 Gill Salve You can apply this salve to your neck to breathe underwater for a number of minutes equal to your level. 23 Replication Parchment 

24 Improved Arcane Shard 25 Major Stride Potion 

By touching this piece of parchment to another, you can perfectly copy the second parchment’s contents. Once used, this parchment becomes mundane paper. 

You can make a Finesse Roll to throw this shard at a group of adversaries within Far range. Targets you succeed against take 2d20 magic damage. 

You gain a +1 bonus to your Agility until your next rest. 

26 Major Bolster Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your Strength until your next rest. 27 Major Control You gain a +1 bonus to your Finesse Potion until your next rest. 

28 Major Attune Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your Instinct until your next rest. 29 Major Charm You gain a +1 bonus to your Presence Potion until your next rest. 

30 Major Enlighten Potion You gain a +1 bonus to your Knowledge until your next rest. 31 Blood of the You can drink this blood to disappear Yorgi from where you are and immediately reappear at a point you can see within Very Far range. 

32 Homet’s Secret Potion After drinking this potion, the next successful attack you make critically succeeds. 33 

Redthorn Saliva 

34 Channelstone You can apply this saliva to a weapon that deals physical damage to add a d12 to your next damage roll with that weapon. 

You can use this stone to take a spell or grimoire from your vault, use it once, and return it to your vault. 

ROLL LOOT description 

35 Mythic Dust You can apply this dust to a weapon that deals magic damage to add a d12 to your next damage roll with that weapon. 

36 Acidpaste This paste eats away walls and other surfaces in bright flashes. 37 Hopehold Flare 

38 Major Arcane Shard 39 Featherbone 

40 Circle of the Void 41 Sun Tree Sap 

When you use this flare, allies within Close range roll a d6 when they spend a Hope. On a result of 6, they gain the effect of that Hope without spending it. The flare lasts until the end of the scene. 

You can make a Finesse Roll to throw this shard at a group of adversaries within Far range. Targets you succeed against take 4d20 magic damage. 

You can use this bone to control your falling speed for a number of minutes equal to your level. 

Mark a Stress to create a void that extends up to Far range. No magic can be cast inside the void, and creatures within the void are immune to magic damage. 

Consume this sap to roll a d6. On a result of 5–6, clear 2 HP. On a result of 2–4, clear 3 Stress. On a result of 1, see through the veil of death and return changed, gaining one scar. 

42 Dripfang Poison A creature who consumes this poison takes 8d10 direct magic damage. 43 Major Health Clear 1d4+2 HP. Potion 

44 Major Stamina Potion Clear 1d4+2 Stress. 45 Ogre Musk You can use this musk to prevent anyone from tracking you by mundane or magical means until your next rest. 

46 Wingsprout You gain magic wings that allow you to fly for a number of minutes equal to your level. 47 Jar of Lost You can open this jar to release Voices a deafening echo of voices for a number of minutes equal to your Instinct. Creatures within Far range unprepared for the sound take 6d8 magic damage. 

48 Dragonbloom Tea You can drink this tea to unleash a fiery breath attack. Make an Instinct Roll against all adversaries in front of you within Close range. Targets you succeed against take d20 physical damage using your Proficiency. 

49 Bridge Seed Thick vines grow from your location to a point of your choice within Far range, allowing you to climb up or across them. The vines dissipate on your next short rest. 

 ROLL LOOT description 

You can drink this potion to fall asleep for a full night’s rest. You clear all Stress upon waking. 

50 Sleeping Sap 51 Feast of Xuria You can eat this meal to clear all HP and Stress and gain 1d4 Hope. 

52 Bonding Honey This honey can be used to glue two objects together permanently. Shrinking Potion 

54 Growing Potion Knowledge Stone 

You can drink this potion to halve your size until you choose to drop this form or your next rest. While in this form, you have a +2 bonus to Agility and a −1 penalty to your Proficiency. 

You can drink this potion to double your size until you choose to drop this form or your next rest. While in this form, you have a +2 bonus to Strength and a +1 bonus to your Proficiency. 

If you die while holding this stone, an ally can take a card from your loadout to place in their loadout or vault. After they take this knowledge, the stone crumbles. 

56 Sweet Moss You can consume this moss during a rest to clear 1d4 HP or 1d4 Stress. Blinding Orb 

58 Death Tea 59 Mirror of Marigold 

60 Stardrop You can activate this orb to create a flash of bright light. All targets within Close range become Vulnerable until they mark HP. 

After you drink this tea, you instantly kill your target when you critically succeed on an attack. If you don’t critically succeed on an attack before your next long rest, you die. 

When you take damage, you can spend a Hope to negate that damage, after which the mirror shatters. 

You can use this stardrop to summon a hailstorm of comets that deals 8d20 physical damage to all targets within Very Far range. 

GOLD 

Gold is an abstract measurement of how much wealth a character has, and is measured in handfuls, bags, and chests, with 10 handfuls to 1 bag, and 10 bags to 1 chest. When you have marked all of the slots in a category and you gain another gold reward in that category, mark a slot in the following category and clear all the slots in the current one. 

For example, if you have 9 handfuls and gain another, you instead mark 1 bag and erase all handfuls. If you have 9 bags and gain another, you mark 1 chest and erase all bags. 

You can’t have more than 1 chest, so if all your Gold slots are marked, you’ll need to spend some of your gold or store it somewhere else before you can acquire more. 

Optional Rule: Gold Coins 

If your group wants to track gold with more granularity, you can add coins as your lowest denomination. Following the established pattern, 10 coins equal 1 handful. 

 RUNNING AN ADVENTURE 

INTRODUCTION 

The GM is responsible for guiding the narrative and roleplaying the world the PCs inhabit. This section provides you with advice for running Daggerheart: using the core mechanics; creating memorable encounters; planning exciting sessions; selecting, creating, and using GM moves; crafting a full campaign; running dynamic NPCs; and more. 

GM GUIDANCE 

These three sections provide a foundation to help you get the most out of this game. The “GM Principles” are your guiding star—when in doubt, return to these principles. 

GM PRINCIPLES 

BEGIN AND END WITH THE FICTION Use the fiction to drive mechanics, then connect the mechanics back to the fiction. 

COLLABORATE AT ALL TIMES, ESPECIALLY DURING CONFLICT The PCs are the protagonists of the campaign; antagonism between player and GM should exist only in the fiction. 

FILL THE WORLD WITH LIFE, WONDER, AND DANGER Showcase rich cultures, take the PCs to wondrous places, and introduce them to dangerous creatures. 

ASKQUESTIONS AND INCORPORATE THE ANSWERS Ensuring that the players’ ideas are included results in a narrative that supports the whole group’s creativity. 

GIVE EVERY ROLL IMPACT Only ask the players to roll during meaningful moments. 

PLAY TO FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENS Be surprised by what the characters do, the choices they make, and the people they become. 

HOLD ON GENTLY Don’t worry if you need to abandon or alter something that came before. 

GM PRACTICES 

CULTIVATE A CURIOUS TABLE Follow what catches the players’ interest to foster an environment of creative inquiry. 

GAIN YOUR PLAYERS’ TRUST Act in good faith, follow through on your promises, admit your mistakes. 

KEEP THE STORY MOVING FORWARD Advance the story through escalating action, new information, or changing circumstances after every action roll, whether it succeeds or fails. 

CUTTO THE ACTION Skip past the boring bits. When a scene drags on, end it. 

HELP THE PLAYERS USE THE GAME Players have more fun when you help them understand the system. 

CREATE A META CONVERSATION Empower players to speak out of character, use safety tools, and ask for clarification. 

TELL THEM WHAT THEY WOULD KNOW Don’t hide obvious details or important information from the players. 

GROUND THE WORLD IN MOTIVE An NPC’s actions flow from their goals and desires. 

BRING THE GAME’S MECHANICS TO LIFE Set a good example of how fiction and mechanics work together to enhance the game experience. 

REFRAME RATHER THAN REJECT If a player’s contribution conflicts with the fiction, work with them to reshape it. 

WORKIN MOMENTS AND MONTAGES When framing a scene, decide which beats should be savored and which shouldn’t linger. 

 PITFALLS TO AVOID 

UNDERMINING THE HEROES If a roll doesn’t go well, show how it was impacted by an adversary’s prowess, environmental factors, or unexpected surprises, rather than the PC’s incompetence. 

ALWAYS TELLING THE PLAYERS WHAT TO ROLL Let the players decide how to handle a challenge. 

LETTING SCENES DRAG Shake it up or cut away when a scene has concluded, the table’s energy is flagging, or people are talking in circles. 

SINGULAR SOLUTIONS Don’t get hung up on one right answer to a problem. If the players have a clever idea, make it work. 

Overplanning 

Spend your prep time inventing situations instead of scripting scenes. If the players surprise you, take a break to think through your options. 

HOARDING FEAR Spend Fear when you have the opportunity. The players will always generate more. 

For more in-depth GM guidance, see pg. 140 of the Daggerheart Core Rulebook. 

CORE GM MECHANICS 

ROLLING DICE 

The GM has no Duality Dice; instead, they roll a single d20 called the GM’s Die. 

ADVERSARYATTACK ROLLS When an adversary attacks a PC, roll your d20 and add the adversary’s attack bonus to the result. If the total meets or beats the target’s Evasion, the attack succeeds; otherwise, the attack fails. On a successful attack, roll the attack’s damage dice to determine how much it deals. 

If you roll a natural 20 on an attack, your roll automatically succeeds and you deal extra damage. Roll damage normally, then add the highest number on the damage dice to the total. For example, an attack that deals 3d6+2 deals 18+3d6+2 on a critical success; the critical success does not affect the flat damage modifier. 

Note: a critical success on an adversary’s reaction roll 

automatically succeeds, but confers no additional benefit. 

GUIDANCE ON ACTION ROLLS After a player describes a move they want to make during the game, you might decide an action roll is necessary to determine how the scene progresses. Use this guide to determine what to present the player, choosing whichever option best fits the situation: 

• Determine whether the roll is necessary, considering the PC’s Experiences or backstory, the pressure they’re acting under, and the possible outcomes. • Establish the stakes of an action roll before the player makes it. • Communicate any unavoidable consequences. • If desired, you can offer the player the opportunity to forgo an action roll in exchange for agreeing to an interesting outcome, cost, or complication. MAKING MOVES 

As the GM, you have GM moves that change the story in response to the players’ actions. GM moves aren’t bound by specific spells or effects—when you make a GM move, you can describe the action in whatever way the fiction demands. 

GM moves happen during GM turns. A GM turn begins when the spotlight passes to them and ends when the spotlight passes back to the players. 

WHEN TO MAKE A MOVE The GM can make a GM move whenever you want, but the frequency and severity depends on the type of story you’re telling, the actions your players take, and the tone of the session you’re running. 

Make a GM move when the players: 

• Roll with Fear • Fail an action roll • Do something that has unavoidable consequences • Give you a “golden opportunity” (an opening that demands an immediate response) • Look to you for what happens next CHOOSING GM MOVES The result of a player’s action roll determines your response: 

On a Critical Success, you let the player describe their success, then give them an additional opportunity or advantage. 

On a Success with Hope, you let the player describe their success, then you show how the world reacts to it. 

On a Success with Fear, you work with the player to describe their success, then take a Fear and make a GM move to introduce a minor consequence, complication, or cost: 

• An adversary attacks • The PC marks a Stress • You introduce a new threat • You raise the stakes of the conflict  On a Failure with Hope, you describe how the PC fails to get what they want, then make a GM move to introduce a minor consequence, complication, or cost: 

• An adversary attacks • The PC marks a Stress • You introduce a new threat • You raise the stakes of the conflict On a Failure with Fear, you describe how things go wrong, then make a GM move to introduce a major consequence, complication, or cost: 

• You put them in immediate danger • They become the focus of multiple adversaries • They are separated from their party • They lose an important opportunity for good. QUICKREFERENCE: RESOLVING ACTION ROLLS 

If you’re unsure how to resolve a roll, think about these quick phrases: 

Success with Hope: Yes, and… (You get what you want and gain a Hope.) 

Success with Fear: Yes, but… (You get what you want, but there’s a consequence, and the GM gains a Fear.) 

Failure with Hope: No, but… (Things don’t go as planned, but you gain a Hope.) 

Failure with Fear: No, and… (Things don’t go as planned and it gets worse. The GM gains a Fear.) 

If the move you should make is not obvious from the fiction, draw inspiration from the “Example GM Moves” list: 

• Introduce a new obstacle or enemy • Ask the player what happens • Have the PC mark a Stress • Tell the players “everything is fine… for now.” SOFT AND HARD MOVES Soft moves go easier on the players—they give the party new information about the scene and offer them an opportunity to react to it. Hard moves are harsher, more impactful, or more direct—the PCs don’t get an opening to interrupt, alter, or anticipate the outcome. 

Use softer moves on rolls with Hope and harder moves on rolls with Fear. 

Example GM Moves 

• Show how the world reacts • Ask a question and build on the answer • Make an NPC act in accordance with their motive • Drive a PC to take action by dangling their goals in front of them • Signal an imminent off-screen threat • Reveal an unwelcome truth or unexpected danger • Force the group to split up • Make a PC mark Stress • Make a move the characters don’t see • Show the collateral damage • Clear an adversary’s condition • Shift the environment • Spotlight an adversary • Capture someone or something important • Use a PC’s backstory against them • Take away an opportunity permanently. USING FEAR 

You start a campaign with 1 Fear per PC in the party. 

You gain Fear whenever a PC rolls with Fear, the PCs take a rest (see: Downtime), or when an ability or effect tells you to. You can never have more than 12 Fear at one time. Fear carries over between sessions. Spend a Fear to: 

• Interrupt the players to steal the spotlight and make a move • Make an additional GM move • Use an adversary’s Fear Feature • Use an environment’s Fear Feature • Add an adversary’s Experience to a roll  The dramatic tension of a scene correlates with the amount of Fear you spend during it. For guidance on how much Fear you should spend in a scene, consult the following table: 

Incidental A catch-up between PCs after an emotionally charged scene; gathering information; resupplying at a local market; resting during downtime. 0–1 Fear Minor A travel sequence; a minor 1–3 Fear skirmish that introduces new foes or signals future trouble. 

Standard A substantial battle with a notable objective; perilous travel that tests might and wit; a tense social encounter seeking crucial information or aid. 

2–4 Fear Major A large battle with a Solo 4–8 Fear or Leader adversary; a character-defining scene with a significant change to a character’s personal story (such as revelation, growth, and betrayal). 

Climactic A major confrontation with the villain of a story arc; an epic set piece battle; a judicial duel to determine an important NPC’s fate. 

6–12 Fear DIFFICULTY BENCHMARKS 

The Difficulty of an attack roll against an adversary is equal to the adversary’s Difficulty score. The Difficulty of any other action rolls against an adversary is equal to the adversary’s Difficulty score, plus (if applicable) the value of one of the adversary relevant Experience modifiers. 

If you find yourself with a large amount of Fear, consider: 

• Spending Fast: Spend Fear before the players have a chance to react • Spending Often: Spend Fear every time the spotlight swings to you • Spending Big: Spend Fear to make multiple moves in a row Spending Fear to make a move communicates the increased impact of your action. Fear moves often include one or more of these elements: 

• Introducing new adversaries to a scene when their appearance hasn’t been foreshadowed or lacks context. • An adversary activating a powerful spell or transformation to deal massive damage or boost their capabilities. • An environment exerting a strong negative effect on the party. When a player makes an action roll without a specified Difficulty, the GM sets the Difficulty according to the totality of the circumstances. Refer to the following benchmark table for more guidance: 

AGILITY roll sprint leap Maneuver 5 Sprint within Close range across an open field with an enemy present. 

10 Sprint within Far range across an open field with an enemy present. 

15 

Sprint within Close range across rough terrain with an enemy present. 

20 

Sprint within Close range through an active battle of multiple enemies. 

25 

Sprint within Far range through a pitched battle in rough terrain. 

30 

Sprint across the heads of your enemies in a pitched battle. 

Make a running jump of half your height (about 3 feet for a human). 

Make a running jump of your height (about 6 feet for a human). 

Make a running jump of double your height (about 12 feet for a human). 

Make a running jump of three times your height (about 18 feet for a human). 

Make a running jump of five times your height (about 30 feet for a human). 

Make a running jump of ten times your height (about 60 feet for a human). 

Walk slowly across a narrow beam. 

Walk quickly across a narrow beam. 

Run across a narrow beam. 

Run across a narrow beam in heavy 

wind. Run across a very narrow beam in an active rainstorm. 

Run across an inch-wide, oil-slicked beam in an active rainstorm. 

 roll lift smash grapple roll lift smash grapple STRENGTHFINESSEINSTINCT 5 Lift a chair. Destroy a glass cup. Subdue a child. 10 Lift a table or small chest. Destroy a small wooden table. Subdue a weak adult. 15 Lift a grown person or large chest. Break through a wooden door. Subdue an average adult. 20 Lift the side of a laden cart or carry a Break through a stone wall. Subdue a skilled wrestler. large chest up stairs. 25 Lift a horse, an ox, or a large monster. Break through a dragon’s teeth. Subdue a large beast. 30 Lift a falling portcullis gate. Break a god’s grip. Subdue a legendary beast. 

roll control hide tinker 5 

10 

15 

20 

25 

30 

roll 

5 

10 

15 

20 

25 

30 

Ride a horse through easy terrain. 

Drive an ox-pulled cart. 

Ride a horse through rough terrain. 

Drive a cart through rough terrain. 

Ride a wild horse through dangerous terrain. 

Ride an enraged beast through dangerous terrain. 

perceive 

Hear a loud noise twenty paces away. 

Hear a speaking voice fifty paces away. 

Hear someone walking in the woods fifty paces away. 

Hear someone sneaking through the woods fifty paces away. 

Hear a prowling animal fifty paces away. 

Hear a diving bird a hundred paces away. 

Evade notice under full cover on a moonless night. 

Evade notice in limited cover on a moonless night. 

Evade notice in limited cover on an average night. 

Evade notice in the shadows on an average night. 

Evade notice with minimal cover in ample light. 

Evade notice with no cover in full daylight. 

sense 

Detect an obvious ambush or notice an obvious deception. 

Detect a looming threat or notice an average person’s lies. 

Detect hostile intent from a foe or see through a merchant’s lies. 

Detect a politician’s veiled hostility or detect a nearby assassin. 

Identify a spymaster’s plot or read a politican’s true intentions. 

Sense a shred of doubt within a god’s pronouncement. 

Open a sticky lock with the appropriate key. 

Open a simple puzzle box. 

Disable a standard trap. 

Disable a complicated trap. 

Open a door secured by a sequence of elaborate locks. 

Disable an incredibly sensitive and deadly trap. 

navigate 

Follow a well-trod path in good lighting and weather. 

Follow an average path in good lighting and weather. 

Follow a subtle path through rough conditions. 

Follow a subtle path through harsh conditions. 

Find your way with no path through dangerous conditions. 

Find your way through a trickery god’s maze. 

 roll charm perform deceive roll charm perform deceive PRESENCE 5 

Win the trust of a friendly neighbor. 

10 

Win the trust of a friendly stranger. 

15 

Win the trust of a cautious stranger or talk your way into a noble’s party. 

20 

Win the trust of a sympathetic foe or talk your way into an enemy’s party. 

25 Turn an enemy against their ruler or talk your way into a fae court. 

30 Talk a hostile god into granting you a boon. 

Earn a meal from a friendly crowd. 

Earn room and board in a small town or impress a small crowd. 

Earn room and board in a low-end tavern or impress a large crowd. 

Earn lodging in a high-end tavern or impress a full theater. 

Earn your keep in a royal court or impress a full colosseum. 

Save yourself from execution after offending the queen. 

Trick a trusting acquaintance. Trick an average stranger. Trick an average merchant. Trick a trained courtier. Trick a spymaster. Trick a god. 

KNOWLEDGE 5 Recall uncommon facts about your Unpack an obvious metaphor in a simple Learn simple skills from an excellent community. text. teacher. 

10 Recall uncommon facts about a Identify obvious subtext in a Learn simple skills from an average neighboring community. conversation. teacher. 

15 Recall uncommon facts about a Break an average cipher in a coded Learn complicated skills from an distant community. message. excellent teacher. 

20 Recall specialized facts about a Identify a weakness in a complicated Learn complicated skills under poor distant community. battle plan. conditions. 

25 Recall specialized facts about a fallen Predict the downfall of a nation based Learn complicated skills quickly kingdom. on concealed misdeeds. under dangerous conditions. 

30 Recall secret information about an Identify the weakness in a divine Learn complicated skills quickly obscure historical group. champion’s fighting form. from incomplete information. 

ADVERSARY ADVANTAGE & DISADVANTAGE GIVING ADVANTAGE AND 

DISADVANTAGE If an adversary has advantage on an action roll, the GM rolls an extra d20 and counts only the higher result. If an adversary 

To viscerally convey how a PC’s actions or circumstances has disadvantage on an action roll, the GM rolls an extra d20 

affect their ability to act, grant them advantage die (or impose and counts only the lower result. 

disadvantage die) instead of adjusting the Difficulty of an action roll. 

ADVERSARYATTACKS ADVERSARYACTION ROLLS When an adversary attacks a PC, the GM rolls a d20 and adds the adversary’s Attack Modifier to the result. If the total meets 

By default, adversaries don’t normally make action rolls except or beats the target’s Evasion, the attack succeeds; otherwise, 

for attack rolls and any unique actions described in their it fails. Before rolling, the GM can grant the attacking 

stat blocks. Any other action an adversary attempts simply adversary advantage, impose disadvantage, or spend a Fear to 

succeeds without an action roll; if you want an adversary’s add a relevant Experience from the adversary’s stat block to 

action to have a chance of failure, have any relevant PCs make the total. 

reaction rolls instead. 

On a success, the adversary deals the damage listed in their 

However, for especially dramatic or difficult tasks that the stat block to the target. 

PCs can’t influence, you can give an adversary an action roll anyway. For an adversary’s action roll, roll a d20. If the result 

When an adversary’s action lets the GM make an attack is equal to or greater than the action’s Difficulty, the action 

against multiple targets, they make one attack roll and succeeds—otherwise it fails. You can spend a Fear before 

compare it to each target’s Evasion separately. rolling to add a relevant Experience from the adversary’s stat block to the total. Use the same procedure when an adversary makes a reaction roll. 

roll recall analyze comprehend  COUNTDOWNS 

Countdowns represent a period of time or series of events preceding a future effect. A countdown begins at a starting value. When a countdown advances, it’s reduced by 1. The countdown’s effect is triggered when the countdown reaches 0. 

Note: You can track countdowns by “spinning down” dice or ticking off boxes. 

Standard countdowns advance every time a player makes an action roll. If an adversary or environment ability refers to a “Countdown [n],” then it means a standard countdown with a starting value of n. 

Dynamic countdowns advance by up to 3 depending on the outcomes of action rolls. Consequence countdowns are dynamic countdowns to negative effects. Progress countdowns are dynamic countdowns to positive effects. Dynamic countdowns advance according to this chart: 

DYNAMIC COUNTDOWN ADVANCEMENT 

Roll Result Progress Advancement Consequence Advancement Failure with Fear No advancement Tick down 3 Failure with Hope No advancement Tick down 2 Success with Fear Tick down 1 Tick down 1 Success with Tick down 2 No advancement Hope Critical Success Tick down 3 No advancement 

ADVANCED COUNTDOWN FEATURES 

• Countdowns with randomized starting values • Loop countdowns that reset to their starting value after their countdown effect is triggered. • Increasing countdowns that increase their starting value by 1 every time they loop. • Decreasing countdowns that decrease their starting value by 1 every time they loop. • Linked progress and consequence countdowns that simultaneously advance according to the same action roll outcomes. • Long-term countdowns that advance after rests instead of action rolls. GIVING OUT GOLD, EQUIPMENT, AND LOOT 

It’s up to you and your players how much importance you want to place on gold, equipment, and loot in your campaign. 

Adjust the availability and utility of wealth and equipment to reflect the tone, themes, and setting of your campaign. 

If you don’t wish to track gold, then when PCs go shopping for new items let them pick one or two from a short, preselected 

list that aligns with your campaign setting and the party’s current location. 

Otherwise, set the prices of goods and services by adjusting the entries in the Average Costs table to reflect your campaign setting: 

Meals for a party of adventurers per night 1 Handful Standard inn room per night 1 Handful Luxury inn room per night 1 Bag Carriage ride 2 Handfuls Mount (horse, mule, etc.) 3 Bags Specialized tools 3 Handfuls Fine clothing 3 Handfuls Luxury clothing 1 Bag Tier 1 equipment (weapons, armor) 1–5 Handfuls Tier 2 equipment (weapons, armor) 1–2 Bags Tier 3 equipment (weapons, armor) 5–10 Bags Tier 4 equipment (weapons, armor) 1–2 Chests RUNNING GM NPCS 

When you run NPCs as the GM, you should always strive to follow your GM principles and use them to bring the world to life. Differentiate NPCs with unique manners of speech and action; let their individual goals and desires motivate their actions. 

The only essential elements for a NPC are their name, description, and motive. If it’s likely that the PCs will roll actions against them, give them a Difficulty. Adversaries can be invented or improvised by modifying the stat block of another adversary. 

If an NPC becomes an ally in combat, they don’t need a stat block—just put the spotlight on what they do and show how their involvement alters the fiction. If a PC capitalizes on their help during the scene, give the PC advantage. NPCs that don’t have Hit Points or Stress can still be injured or killed if the fiction demands it. 

If you want an important NPC to mechanically interact with the system, you can give them one or more features with specific triggers and effects. An NPC might also have a choice that adjusts the parameters of their feature. For example: 

ARCANE HOLD 

Choice: When the battle begins, choose a favored PC. 

Trigger: The first time during a battle the favored PC is 

within Close range and hit with an attack. 

Effect: Make an attack roll with a +6 modifier against 

the adversary. On a success, the target is temporarily 

Restrained by tendrils of powerful magic. 

 NPC FEATURE EXAMPLES 

VOLLEY OF ARROWS 

Trigger: A battle begins and this NPC is involved. 

Effect: Activate a countdown (Loop 3). It ticks down when a PC misses an attack. When it triggers, this NPC releases a volley of arrows at a target of the PCs’ choice, dealing 2d8+3 physical damage. 

MENTOR 

Choice: When the battle begins, choose a protégé PC. 

Trigger: Your protégé is within Close range and fails an 

attack roll. 

Effect: Move into Melee range with the PC and give them advice or guidance. The next attack roll they make has advantage. 

REGROUP 

Choice: When a battle begins, choose a point within Far 

range. 

Trigger: All PCs have marked all of their Armor Slots. 

Effect: Teleport all PCs and this NPC to the chosen spot 

and clear an Armor Slot on each target. 

INTO THE NIGHT 

Trigger: The PCs start a long rest with this NPC. 

Effect: Roll 1d4. On a 2 or less, this NPC steals 1 handful of gold from the party while they are sleeping, then disappears into the night. 

OPTIONAL GM MECHANICS 

FATE ROLLS When the GM wants to leave an outcome entirely up to chance, they call for a fate roll. The GM establishes what’s at stake and how the roll will be interpreted. Then a player rolls one of their Duality Dice and interprets the result. 

Examples: 

“Roll your Fear Die. On a 4 or lower, the fire spreads beyond this house.” 

“I think it’s really up to chance whether reinforcements will make it to you in time. Go ahead and roll your Fear Die— that’ll determine the starting size of the countdown. When that triggers, reinforcements will arrive in your Far range.” 

“Go ahead and roll your Hope Die to see how big the crowd at the inn is tonight. The higher the roll, the bigger the crowd.” 

“Make a roll using your Hope Die to determine the number of Stamina Potions the shop has in stock.” 

FALLING AND COLLISION DAMAGE If a character falls to the ground, you can use the following as a guide to determine the damage they take: 

• A fall from Very Close range deals 1d10+3 physical damage. • A fall from Close range deals 1d20+5 physical damage. • A fall from Far or Very Far range deals 1d100+15 physical damage, or death at the GM’s discretion. If a character collides with an object or another character at a dangerous speed, they take 1d20+5 direct physical damage. 

MOVING AND FIGHTING UNDERWATER By default, attack rolls made while the attacker is underwater have disadvantage. 

For creatures that can’t breathe underwater, use a standard countdown (3) to track how long they can hold their breath. Advance the countdown whenever the PC takes an action. In addition if they fail a roll or roll with Fear while underwater, you can spend your GM move to advance it an additional time—or twice, if they rolled a failure with Fear. 

Once the countdown ends, the underwater PC must mark a Stress whenever they take an action. 

CONFLICTBETWEEN PCS Sometimes a player might want their character to act against another PC in the scene. Before jumping to rolling dice, discuss the situation with both players to decide how to resolve the conflict. A roll might not be necessary to reach an outcome—but if rolling will be fun for everyone involved, come to a consensus on the terms of the roll, then facilitate the scene according to the results. 

On an attack roll against a PC, the attacker rolls against the defender’s Evasion, just like an adversary. On any other kind of action roll, the instigator makes an action roll and the target makes a reaction roll. To succeed, the instigator must beat a Difficulty equal to the total value of the reaction roll. 

 ADVERSARIES AND ENVIRONMENTS 

USING ADVERSARIES 

ADVERSARY STAT BLOCKS 

All the information required to run an adversary is contained in their stat block. An adversary’s stat block includes their: 

NAME 

Each stat block has a unique name. Abilities that affect adversaries with a certain name include all adversaries who use that stat block, regardless of their in-story name. 

TIER 

Each adversary is designed to oppose PCs of a certain tier. If you confront the party with an adversary from another tier, adjust their stats. 

TYPE 

The adversary’s type appears alongside their tier. An adversary’s type represents the role they play in a conflict. The adversary types are: 

• Bruisers: tough; deliver powerful attacks. • Hordes: groups of identical creatures acting together as a single unit. • Leaders: command and summon other adversaries. • Minions: easily dispatched but dangerous in numbers. • Ranged: fragile in close encounters but deal high damage at range. • Skulks: maneuver and exploit opportunities to ambush opponents. • Socials: present challenges around conversation instead of combat. • Solos: present a formidable challenge to a whole party, with or without support. • Standards: representative of their fictional group. • Supports: enhance their allies and disrupt their opponents. DESCRIPTION 

MOTIVES & TACTICS DIFFICULTY 

The Difficulty of any roll made against the adversary, unless otherwise noted. 

DAMAGE THRESHOLDS, HIT POINTS, AND STRESS These systems function the same way they do for PCs. The numbers listed after “Threshold” are the adversary’s Major and Severe Thresholds. 

ATTACKMODIFIER When you attack with the adversary, apply this bonus or penalty to your attack roll. 

STANDARD ATTACK A description of the adversary’s primary mode of inflicting harm on the PCs. It includes the attack’s name, its effective range, and the damage it deals on a success. Using an adversary’s standard attack is a GM move. 

EXPERIENCE (OPTIONAL) The GM can spend a Fear to add an adversary’s relevant Experience to raise their attack roll or increase the Difficulty of a roll made against them. 

EXAMPLE EXPERIENCES: 

Acrobatics Hunt from Above Navigation Ambusher Intimidation Nobility 

Bartering Intrusion Quick Reflexes Blademaster Keen Senses Socialite Bodyguard Magical Knowledge Stealth Commander Nature’s Friend Tracker 

FEATURE(S) 

There are three kinds of adversary features: actions, reactions, and passives. Note: each adversaries stress is tracked individually. If a feature requires the GM to spend Stress to activate it, the Stress must come from the adversary whose feature is being activate. If a feature has a Fear requirement, it must be spent in addition to any Fear already spent—for instance, to interrupt the PCs and put the spotlight on the adversary. 

• Actions: a special attack or other unique action that the adversary can perform when the spotlight is on them. • Reactions: special effects that take effect when their trigger occurs, regardless of whether the spotlight is on the adversary. • Passives: special abilities that remain in effect by default and require no resources or triggers to activate. FEAR FEATURE(S) High-impact effects that cost a Fear to activate. 

 EXAMPLE ADVERSARY FEATURES: 

ACTIONS 

Haymaker - Action: Make an attack against a target within Very Close range. On a success, deal X direct physical damage. 

Shredding Strike - Action: Make an attack against a target within Very Close range. On a success, deal X physical damage and the target must mark an Armor Slot without gaining its benefit (they can still use armor to reduce the damage). 

More Where That Came From - Action: Summon three Jagged Knife Lackeys, who appear at Far range. 

REACTIONS 

Heavy Hitter - Reaction: When this adversary deals damage with a standard attack, you can spend a Fear to gain a +X bonus to the damage roll. 

Team-Up - Reaction: When another adversary within Very Close range of thisadversary deals X damage to a creature, you can mark a Stress to make a standard attack against that same creature. On a success, combine the damage. 

Momentum - Reaction: When this adversary makes a successful attack against a PC, you gain a Fear. 

PASSIVES 

Horde (X) - Passive: When the Horde has marked half or more of their HP, their standard attack deals X damage instead. 

Minion (X) - Passive: This adversary is defeated when they take any damage. For every X damage a PC deals to this adversary, defeat an additional Minion within range the attack would succeed against. 

Relentless (X) - Passive: This adversary can be spotlighted up to X times per GM turn. Spend Fear as usual to spotlight them. 

Slow - Passive: When you spotlight this adversary and they don’t have a token on their stat block, they can’t act yet. Place a token on their stat block and describe what they’re preparing to do. When you spotlight this adversary and they have a token on their stat block, clear the token and they can act. 

Arcane Form - Passive: This adversary is resistant to magic damage. 

Armored Carapace - Passive: When this adversary takes physical damage, reduce it by X. 

FEAR FEATURES Explosion - Action: Spend a Fear to erupt in a fiery explosion. Make an attack against all targets within Close range. Targets the adversary succeeds against take 1d8 magic damage and are knocked back to Far range. 

BUILDING BALANCED ENCOUNTERS 

When planning a battle, start with [(3 x the number of PCs in combat) + 2] Battle Points and make the following adjustments: 

-1 for an easier or shorter fight -2 if you’re using 2 or more Solo adversaries -2 if you add +1d4 (or a static +2) to all adversaries’ 

damage rolls +1 if you choose an adversary from a lower tier +1 if you don’t include any Bruisers, Hordes, Leaders, or 

Solos +2 for a harder or longer fight Then spend your Battle Points to add an adversary to the encounter: 

Spend 1 point for each group of Minions equal to the size of the party. Spend 1 point for each Social or Support adversary. Spend 2 points for each Horde, Ranged, Skulk, or Standard 

adversary. Spend 3 points for each Leader adversary. Spend 4 points for each Bruiser adversary. Spend 5 points for each Solo adversary. 

DEFEATED ADVERSARIES 

When an adversary marks their last Hit Point, they are defeated: incapacitated, tied up, routed, killed, or anything else the table decides makes sense. 

 ADVERSARY STAT BLOCK BENCHMARKS 

Adversary Statistic Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Attack Modifier +1 +2 +3 +4 

Damage Dice 1d6+2 to 1d12+4 2d6+3 to 2d12+4 3d8+3 to 3d12+5 4d8+10 to 4d12+15 Difficulty 11 14 17 20 

Damage Thresholds Major 7/Severe 12 Major 10/Severe 20 Major 20/Severe 32 Major 25/Severe 45 ADVERSARIES BY TIER This section contains the following stat blocks: TIER 1 (LEVEL 1) • Sellsword • Acid Burrower • Skeleton Archer • Bear • Skeleton Dredge • Cave Ogre • Skeleton Knight • Construct • Skeleton Warrior • Courtier • Spellblade • Deeproot Defender • Swarm of Rats • Dire Wolf • Sylvan Soldier • Giant Mosquitoes • Tangle Bramble Swarm • Giant Rat • Tangle Bramble • Giant Scorpion • Weaponmaster • Glass Snake • Young Dryad • Harrier • Brawny Zombie • Archer Guard • Patchwork Zombie Hulk • Bladed Guard • Rotted Zombie • Head Guard • Shambling Zombie • Jagged Knife Bandit • Zombie Pack • Jagged Knife Hexer TIER 2 (LEVELS 2–4) • Jagged Knife Kneebreaker • Jagged Knife Lackey • Jagged Knife Lieutenant • Archer Squadron • Apprentice Assassin • Assassin Poisoner • Jagged Knife Shadow • Master Assassin • Jagged Knife Sniper • Battle Box • Merchant • Chaos Skull • Minor Chaos Elemental • Minor Fire Elemental • Conscript • Courtesan • Minor Demon • Minor Treant • Green Ooze • Cult Adept • Cult Fang • Cult Initiate • Tiny Green Ooze • Demonic Hound Pack • Red Ooze • Electric Eels • Tiny Red Ooze • Elite Soldier • Petty Noble • Pirate Captain • Failed Experiment • Giant Beastmaster • Pirate Raiders • Giant Brawler • Pirate Tough • Giant Recruit 72 

 • Giant Eagle • Fallen Warlord: • Gorgon • Undefeated Champion • Juvenile Flickerfly • Hallowed Archer • Knight of the Realm • Hallowed Soldier • Masked Thief • High Seraph • Merchant Baron • Kraken • Minotaur Wrecker • Oracle of Doom • Mortal Hunter • Outer Realms Abomination • Royal Advisor • Outer Realms Corruptor • Secret-Keeper • Outer Realms Thrall • Shark • Volcanic Dragon: • Siren • Obsidian Predator • Spectral Archer • Volcanic Dragon: • Spectral Captain • Molten Scourge • Spectral Guardian • Volcanic Dragon: • Spy • Ashen Tyrant • Stonewraith • Perfected Zombie • War Wizard • Zombie Legion TIER 3 (LEVELS 5–7) • Adult Flickerfly • Demon of Avarice • Demon of Despair • Demon of Hubris • Demon of Jealousy • Demon of Wrath • Dire Bat • Dryad • Elemental Spark • Greater Earth Elemental • Greater Water Elemental • Huge Green Ooze • Hydra • Monarch • Stag Knight • Oak Treant • Treant Sapling • Head Vampire • Vampire • Vault Guardian Gaoler • Vault Guardian Sentinel • Vault Guardian Turret • Young Ice Dragon TIER 4 (LEVELS 8–10) • Arch-Necromancer • Fallen Shock Troop • Fallen Sorcerer • Fallen Warlord: • Realm-Breaker 

 TIER 1 ADVERSARIES (LEVEL 1) 

-

-

-

-

 -

 76 

 77 

 -

-

-

-

-

-

 -

 -

80 

 -

-

 -

 TIER 2 ADVERSARIES (LEVELS 2-4) 

-

 -

-

-

 -

-

 -

-

 -

-

-

 -

-

 -

 TIER 3 ADVERSARIES 

(LEVELS 5-7) 

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

 -

-

-

-

 -

 -

-

-

 -

-

-

 TIER 4 ADVERSARIES (LEVELS 8-10) 

-

-

-

-

-

-

 -

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

 -

-

-

-

-

-

 -

-

-

-

 -

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

 USING ENVIRONMENTS 

Environments represent everything in a scene beyond the PCs and adversaries, such as the physical space, background NPCs, and 

natural forces. 

ENVIRONMENT STAT BLOCK 

Each environment’s stat block presents their necessary mechanical statistics: 

NAME 

TIER 

Their PC tier the environment is designed to challenge. 

TYPE 

The type of scene it most easily supports: 

• Explorations — wondrous locations with mysteries and marvels to discover • Socials — locations that primarily present interpersonal challenges • Traversals — dangerous locations where movement through and around the space itself is a challenge • Events — special activities or occurrences (rather than physical spaces) DESCRIPTION 

An evocative one-line summary of the environment. 

IMPULSES 

The manner or mode with which the environment pushs and pulls the people within them. 

DIFFICULTY 

The standard Difficulty for action rolls made to overcome, oppose, or resist the environment or its elements. 

POTENTIALADVERSARIES FEATURES 

FEATURE QUESTIONS Prompts for plot hooks, narrative engines, and connections to other story elements. 

ADAPTING ENVIRONMENTS 

Sometimes you want to use an environment but it’s at the framework is there to help organize ideas, not to stifle wrong tier for your party. Or you might want to replace creativity. a feature or two, then present it as an entirely different 

When you need to quickly adjust a stat block to a different 

environment. Whether planning your session or even 

tier, you can simply replace its existing statistics with those 

improvising an environment mid-session, you can adjust an 

listed on the Environment Statistics by Tier table, using the 

existing environment’s stat block to fit the needs of your 

column that corresponds to your party’s tier. 

scene or improvise elements as needed. The environments 

BENCHMARK STATISTICS FOR ENVIRONMENTS BY TIER 

 Environment Statistic Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Environment Statistic Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Damage Dice 1d6+1 to 1d8+3 2d6+3 to 2d10+2 3d8+3 to 3d10+1 4d8+3 to 4d10+10 Difficulty 11 14 17 20 

 ENVIRONMENT STAT BLOCKS BY TIER 

This section contains the following stat blocks. 

TIER 1 (LEVEL 1) 

TIER 2 (LEVELS 2–4) 

• Abandoned Grove (Exploration) • Cult Ritual (Event) • Ambushed (Event) • Hallowed Temple (Social) • Ambushers (Event) • Haunted City (Exploration) • Bustling Marketplace (Social) • Mountain Pass (Traversal) • Cliffside Ascent (Traversal) • Local Tavern (Social) • Outpost Town (Social) • Raging River (Traversal)  TIER 3 (LEVELS 5–7) • Castle Siege (Event) TIER 4 (LEVELS • Divine Usurpation (Event) 

• Pitched Battle (Event) 8–10) • Imperial Court (Social) 

• Burning Heart of the Woods (Exploration) • Chaos Realm (Traversal) • Necromancer’s Ossuary (Exploration) 

TIER 1 ENVIRONMENTS (LEVEL 1) 

-

-

 -

104 

 -

-

-

-

-

 TIER 2 ENVIRONMENTS 

(LEVELS 2-4) 

-

-

 -

-

-

 TIER 3 ENVIRONMENTS 

(LEVELS 5-7) 

-

-

-

-

 -

-

 TIER 4 ENVIRONMENTS (LEVELS 8-10) 

-

-

-

-

 -

-

-

 ADDITIONAL GM GUIDANCE 

This section provides additional guidance for preparing and running a session of Daggerheart. 

STORY BEATS 

In storytelling, a beat is a moment that changes the trajectory of the narrative—a shift in the world, a significant action or reaction, an emotional revelation, or an important decision. Take turns with the players, narrating a beat and then letting them react and carry the scene forward with their own beats. When preparing for a session, plan in terms of the moments that give shape to each scene or sequence, rather than prescripting specific details or exchanges. 

PREPARING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS 

Build the hurdles the PCs face around the question of “What helps tell the story?” Enemies, environments, and hazards are the tools for heightening tension and creating drama. Ensure that combat is being used to give players more information about the unfolding story, revealing the world, the plot, or the characters. 

BATTLES AND NARRATIVE 

Dynamic battles create suspense by forcing players to choose between their various objectives, engaging their character’s motivations and weaknesses, and creating the crucible that the players use to forge their characters into legendary heroes. When preparing combat encounters: 

• Consider the narrative function of the battle • Base adversaries’ moves on their motives • Use dynamic environments to bring the battleground to life • Add enemies that can interact with the PCs’ features and special abilities SESSION REWARDS 

Reward players at the end of a session with: 

• Useful information • Story hooks • Loot • Gold • Access to new equipment or enhancements CRAFTING SCENES 

Whenever you start a session, arrive at a new place, or change the situation, tell the players what they need to know by thinking with all of your senses and sharing something unique or unexpected about the fiction. 

ENGAGING YOUR PLAYERS 

Keep your players engaged by: 

• Rotating the Focus between the PCs • Tying Together Story Elements • Engaging Quiet Players • Using Visual Aids • Encouraging Unguided Play • Confronting the PCs with internal and external conflicts • Raise the Stakes by Spending Fear • Layering Goals Other than Attrition into Combat (see Table of Random Objectives on the next page) 1d12 Objective 1 Acquire (obtain or steal) an important item or items. 

2 Capture one or more of the opponents. 3 Activate a magical device. 

4 Frame a character or tarnish their reputation. 5 Drive the opponent into a corner or ambush point. 

6 Stop a magical ritual, legal ceremony, or time- sensitive spell. 7 Hold the line—keep the enemy from reaching a specific area or group. 

8 Plant evidence or a tracking device on a target. 9 Secure a specific location ahead of another group’s arrival. 

10 Harass the opponent to deplete their resources or keep them occupied. 11 Destroy a piece of architecture, a statue, a shrine, or a weapon. 

12 Investigate a situation to confirm or deny existing information. PHASED BATTLES 

Make battles by shifting the nature of its enemies or environment mid-combat: 

• Change the Terms of Engagement • Alter the Environment • Evolve the Opposition USING DOWNTIME 

Use downtime scenes as a pressure release valve to vary the intensity of the story and give the PCs room to breathe. 

Empower your players to frame their own downtime scenes. Ask the players what it looks like as they tend to their wounds or unwind together, encouraging them to take the reins and work with other players whose characters are involved 

 PROJECTS DURING DOWNTIME 

The Work on a Project downtime move requires more GM input than other downtime moves and is best suited for longterm endeavors the PCs wish to undertake. 

These projects are typically tracked using a Progress Countdown. When deciding the starting value of the countdown, consider the complexity of the project, the availability of relevant tools, and the impact of the project on the story. 

Simple projects advance their countdown each time a player uses the Work on a Project move, but complex projects require a roll. 

EXTENDED DOWNTIME 

When you fast-forward the story across an extended period, use montages to illustrate the passage of time. You gain 1d6 Fear per PC and advance any long-term countdowns as appropriate. 

CAMPAIGN FRAMES 

A campaign frame provides inspiration, tools, and mechanics to support a particular type of story at the table. 

Every campaign frame has a complexity rating that indicates how much its mechanics deviate from or expand upon the Daggerheart core ruleset. 

Each campaign frame includes the following sections. 

•A pitch to present to players • Suggestions and guidance on tone, feel, themes, and touchstones • An overview of the campaign’s background • Guidance for fitting communities, ancestries, and classes into the setting • Principles for players and GMs to focus on during the campaign • Unique setting distinctions • An inciting incident to launch the campaign • Special mechanics to use during the campaign • Questions to consider during session zero You can find each campaign frame map in the appendix of 

the core rulebook or at www.daggerheart.com/downloads. 

The Witherwild 

When an invading nation attacks an ancient forest deity, a virulent overgrowth spreads throughout the land. 

Designed by Carlos Cisco, Rowan Hall, & Spenser Starke 

COMPLEXITY RATING: • 

THE PITCH 

Read this section to your players to introduce them to the campaign. 

Fanewick was once a place of great abundance and peace—dangerous to those unfamiliar with the land, but a cornucopia to those who respected its ways. When Haven invaded the wilds and forced the land into eternal spring, a dangerous bloom known as the Witherwild took hold and now threatens the lives of all who live there. In a Witherwild campaign, you’ll play unlikely heroes from humble beginnings who are reckoning with their newfound duty to save Fanewick’s people from dangerous corruption. 

TONE & FEEL 

Adventurous, Dynamic, Epic, Heroic, Thrilling, Uncanny, 

Whimsical 

THEMES 

Cultural Clash, Ends Justify Means, Grief, People vs. 

Nature, Transformation and Change, Survival 

TOUCHSTONES 

Princess Mononoke, The Legend of Zelda, The Dark Crystal, 

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind 

OVERVIEW 

If your group decides to play this campaign, give your players the following information before character creation. 

Fanewick is a wild and untamed land, long avoided by outside forces. The woods are dark and twisting, filled with Faint Divinities who perform small miracles and services for its inhabitants, but are just as likely to lure travelers off narrow paths to their ruin. Seemingly harmless expanses of field hide bogs that engulf entire armies, consuming heavy artillery as quickly as it can cross the border. This wilderness fosters hardy people who are bold enough to raise families where others have not and strictly follow the unique rules that keep them safe. These Wicklings remained insulated from their neighbors’ wars until plague forced the people of Haven to desperate acts. 

Haven was once the most powerful force in the region; for centuries, the high stone walls into the capital bore the phrase “The Godless Gate.” While the original meaning has been 

 lost to common knowledge, some dusty tomes and ancient records state that the founders of Haven wished to be free of the influence of the Faint Divinities that dominated the surrounding regions. They hatched a plan to kill one of the mightiest of these deities, known as Shun’Aush the Granite Ophid. While their exact method of deicide is forgotten, their victory ensured Haven’s dominance in the region for centuries to come. They made their home behind his remains, which became the mighty walls that Haven is known for. 

But Shun’Aush would have his revenge. As the Havenites carved through his stone body, the fine dust left behind settled into the surrounding earth. There was a time of prosperity over many centuries while the scales of the god remained undisturbed. But progress is its own pressure. The growing population demanded increased productivity, and as farmers tilled deeper soil and miners hacked into hidden stone, the ancient stone dust rose to the surface. The same walls that brought the city security became the crucible that incubated a virulent plague. 

Over the last two years, over half of Haven’s populace fell to a disease known as the Serpent’s Sickness. First, victims cough up dust. Soon after, their skin breaks out in a scaling rash. Finally, their body hardens—first the flesh, bones, and soft tissue, spreading until, finally, their organs ossify. Once within the organs, “the serpent” moves so quickly that sufferers petrify where they stand, filling Haven with statues of victims in their last moments of agony. 

The High Magus of Haven, Archmage Phylax, discovered a rare red flower called the crimson lady’s veil that could cure the Serpent’s Sickness. These buds grow prolifically across Fanewick in the spring—but for every ten thousand of the common white-petaled blossoms, only one red flower blooms. 

Desperate to save their people from the plague, Haven invaded Fanewick to amass the scarce red buds. Their forces plunged into the deep wood and, under the guidance of Archmage Phylax, plucked out the Reaping Eye from the most powerful Faint Divinity that protected the land: The Great Owl Nikta, the Shepherd of the Seasons. The Shepherd kept Fanewick in balance by turning her eyes upon the land, first for ripening, then ruination. Thus Nikta maintained the cycle of seasons—of growth and decay, of death and rebirth. With her Reaping Eye removed, Nikta can only watch over Fanewick with the Sowing Eye, forcing the land into everlasting spring. 

In the year since, Haven has conquered the bogs, turning them into fields to harvest red flowers. The endless growth that once seemed like a gift quickly evolved into a scourge known as the Witherwild—Fanewick’s flora and fauna flourished, unchecked and uncontrolled. Animals swell to massive size; trees warp, twist, and begin to hunt people; and vines creep along the forest floor, strangling all they touch. This explosive growth is unconquerable and unrelenting, with no force able to stop the burgeoning verdance for long. 

Prior to the Serpent’s Sickness and the Shepherd’s endless growth, your party lived a peaceful life in Fanewick or a life of toil and conquest in Haven. But when the danger demands a response, even the unprepared—and unwilling—must make a stand. 

COMMUNITIES 

All communities are available, but some have unique aspects within a Witherwild campaign. As needed, provide the following information to your players and choose one or more of the questions to ask them during your session zero. 

LOREBORNE AND HIGHBORNE In Fanewick, knowledge is the most valuable commodity, and those who have expertise have the most power. This economy of information functions primarily through gifting and trading, and wisdom would be considered acceptable collateral for a weapon or warm meal. As such, loreborne community members are the wealthiest in Fanewick and might be smaller, distinct groups of hunters, historians, or artisans within larger villages. 

What knowledge did your community teach you that you must now protect or share? 

What are you able to accomplish because of your upbringing that others outside your community do not understand? 

You once traded important knowledge for something terrible. What did you impart and what did you gain in return? 

In Haven, the wealthiest members are highborne, having inherited riches built in the walled city over generations. While the highborne of Haven were more insulated from the Serpent’s Sickness, none were immune. 

Who have you lost to the Serpent’s Sickness? How did it affect you? 

How did your family make their wealth? Have you rejected or embraced their core set of ethics? 

You grew up in a world of abundance but were kept from learning something about the world. What was this knowledge and when did you discover it? 

RIDGEBORNE, UNDERBORNE, AND WILDBORNE Characters from these communities were likely raised in Fanewick’s deadly environs, which have only become more dangerous as the Witherwild grows. Each community has unique customs, some freely shared and others kept secret, that allow them safe passage through dangerous terrain and the Faint Divinities’ territories. 

In exchange for protection from the Witherwild for themselves and their families, some Wicklings from these groups have been forced to take jobs as farmers in Haven’s flower fields. Though it is backbreaking work performed for a nation destroying their land, the farmers are offered safety by the Haven fires that burn back the ever-creeping Witherwild. 

 What Faint Divinities do you give tribute to, and how have you been rewarded in kind? 

You displeased a god of Fanewick. What did you do, and what misfortune befell you or a loved one? 

You fled the place of your birth. What circumstances drove you to leave? 

ORDERBORNE 

Players might choose to build orderborne characters if they want to play current or former members of the Haven Army that invaded Fanewick. Though the army brings violence into this land, they also carry overwhelming grief for a homeland succumbing to disease. 

What regrets do you carry with you from your conquest of foreign soil? 

What kindness did an enemy combatant bestow upon you in an hour of need? How did this change your view of the people of Fanewick? 

You were charged with planting a rumor in a Fanewick community. What is the rumor, and do you plan to carry out this mission? 

SLYBORNE 

As the Haven Army is the current martial power in Fanewick, those who wish to play slyborne characters might come from Fanewick rebel groups seeking to expel the invading forces from their lands. Depending on the tactics their group employs, a character from a slyborne community might align with or go against their upbringing. 

Who among the Haven Army do you wish to exact revenge upon and why? 

You joined an insurgent group working to free this land from Haven’s grasp. What has given you doubts about the leadership’s methods? 

Someone you love is a member of the Haven Army. How have you used your position in the rebellion to protect them? 

SEABORNE 

Both Fanewick and Haven have a coastal border. The majority of Fanewick’s seaborne communities live in small seaside groups and focus on local travel to neighboring regions, while Havenites tend to live in large ports that ship and receive goods from distant lands. 

You recently traveled by sea over a vast distance. What went terribly wrong on that passage, and how has it changed you? 

Growing up on the sea taught you a skill few have. What did you learn, and how did it save your life? 

You used to sail with a companion. Who were they, and how do you remain connected? 

WANDERBORNE 

Wanderborne communities can be found in both Fanewick and Haven, though safe travel has been severely restricted due to the military occupation and the expansion of the Witherwild. Whether a wanderborne character comes from Fanewick, Haven, or elsewhere, the player should determine their character’s personal views on the invasion of Fanewick, and how that aligns or departs from their community’s views. 

What do you do to keep your small community safe, independent, and hidden from Haven’s forces? 

Because of your community’s transience, you have loved ones in both Fanewick and Haven. How has this affected your relationship with the invasion? 

Your community travels to protect something. What is it, and why does it keep you from settling down? 

ANCESTRIES 

All ancestries are available, but some have unique aspects within a Witherwild campaign. As needed, provide the following information to your players. 

CLANKS 

Clanks from Haven are commonly made from iron and steel, while clanks from Fanewick are typically constructed from wood and stone. 

FUNGRIL 

Since the Witherwild spread throughout Fanewick, some fungril inhabiting the forests have grown noticeably larger than fungril from other regions. 

DRAKONA, FAUNS, FIRBOLGS, AND INFERNIS After the Witherwild corrupted Fanewick, some drakona, fauns, firbolgs, and infernis have noticed their horns growing faster and longer. 

GALAPAAND RIBBETS Many families of galapa and ribbets who lived in the bogs of Fanewick were displaced when Haven’s army invaded. 

Havenites and the Serpent’s Sickness 

Anyone, but especially those from Haven, may carry the Serpent’s Sickness, which stiffens their movements and gives them limited time to survive without a cure. 

 CLASSES 

All classes are available, but some have unique aspects within a Witherwild campaign. As needed, provide the following information to your players. 

Druids, Rangers, and Sorcerers 

Druids, rangers, and sorcerers are commonly found throughout Fanewick. If players choose one of these classes, they should consider how their character’s connection to the natural world might be impacted by the Witherwild. 

WARRIORS AND WIZARDS Warriors and wizards are prevalent in Haven. A large wizarding school in Haven teaches fighters and healers, and the Haven Army is largely composed of warriors and School of War wizards. If a PC is either of these classes, consider their personal relationship to the Haven Army. 

VENGEANCE GUARDIAN Many Wicklings who seek revenge on Haven or to expel them from Fanewick become Vengeance guardians. If players choose this subclass, they should consider what ideals or institutions their character protects. 

SYNDICATE ROGUE The Haven Army sends spies into Fanewick communities to gain information on planned attacks and manipulate public perception. When selecting the Syndicate rogue subclass, players should consider how their character might be connected to or impacted by these covert operatives. 

PLAYER PRINCIPLES 

If your group decides to play this campaign, give your players the following information before character creation. 

MAKE THE INVASION PERSONAL Consider how Haven’s invasion of Fanewick deeply impacts your character. Let these details inform what they want and what they’re willing to do to get it. Everyone has lost a loved one to the Witherwild or the Serpent’s Sickness, and more are dying by the day. Consider how the growing conflict caused your character to act in ways they aren’t proud of, or transformed personal truths they once believed were unshakable. 

TREATDEATH WITH IMPORTANCE Taking a life should not be done without consideration, desperation, and consequences. As your character journeys, they should remember those they’ve lost and those they’ve slain, allowing each death to affect their choices in the future. 

EMBRACE VULNERABILITY Find your character’s humanity and showcase it whenever you can. They should be as vulnerable during quiet moments as they are vicious during violent ones, opening up to their allies even if they close themself off to everyone else. 

GM PRINCIPLES 

Keep the following guidance in mind while you GM this campaign. 

PAINT THE WORLD IN CONTRAST Subvert expectations by giving space for the nightmarish to charm and the beautiful to terrify. Give the PCs visions of the natural beauty of Fanewick that has run roughshod across the region, breaking the bounds of the bogs and forests and devastating homes and communities. Show the grim and ordered life behind Haven’s walls, but also show the culture, art, and progress that has come out of centuries of safety. Contrast the capricious nature of the Faint Divinities with the devotion of the Wicklings and Havenites fighting to save their home. In a place of long nights and days, dual seasons, and two nations in conflict, look for ways to highlight bold dualities. 

SHOWTHEM TRUE DANGER Though it may be tragic, bodily harm is not the worst tragedy that can befall the characters. To illustrate what’s truly at stake, use the PCs’ origins in Fanewick or Haven to show them what they stand to lose, be it their homes, family, friends, communities, or even their core truths and beliefs. The events of this campaign may change, threaten, or destroy these aspects of their past—when your players create and are invested in their character’s backstory, they have something to fight for. 

OFFER ALTERNATIVES TO VIOLENCE By illuminating nonviolent approaches to problem-solving, the PCs can help break the brutal cycle that binds this world. For example, showing compassion—rather than swordpoint— to a corrupted beast can free them from the Witherwild. Similarly, the conflict between Haven and Fanewick shouldn’t only be solved with blood and blade. What threatens both could also unify them. Give the PCs opportunities to mend old wounds, right past wrongs, and heal the rift between Haven and Fanewick from within. 

CREATE MULTIDIMENSIONAL ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 

No adversary or ally is all good or all bad, and they each have multidimensional lives. Even the most congenial ally should be hiding darkness inside them, hoping their failings will go undiscovered. Those painted as evil should sometimes do the right thing, even if it’s for the wrong reason. Just because a PC or NPC is from Haven doesn’t make them a villain, and, conversely, not all the inhabitants of Fanewick are virtuous. Finding the nuance, complications, and deeper motivations of the people of Haven and Fanewick will lead to richer interactions, more complex moral choices, and a deeper sense of attachment to the world for the players. 

 DISTINCTIONS 

Use this information to prepare your campaign. You can also share it with your players as needed. 

THE WEEKS OF DAY AND NIGHT The day and night cycle occurs weekly, meaning the sun rises for an entire week before setting into a nighttime of the same length. This has an impact on everything from agriculture to trade, as many merchants refuse to travel through the night. 

But this cycle doesn’t just affect Wicklings, it’s dictated how Fanewick’s wondrous ecology has evolved. Days and nights are accompanied by entirely different natural soundscapes as Fanewick’s nocturnal denizens sleep through the long days and stalk the woods in times of darkness while their diurnal counterparts sleep. The plants similarly live on this strange day-night loop, and many live out their entire life cycles in a week. Sun rose vines make a thorny ascent to the top of the tree canopy over the course of the week, only to wilt under the light of the moon. Conversely, night bloom, a bioluminescent flower that emits the smell of burnt sugar and decay, only blossoms when evening falls, illuminating patches of forest—a godsend to anyone forced to travel in the dark. 

THE SERPENT’S SICKNESS The plague sweeping across Haven spares no one. Since the initial outbreak, Haven officials have worked tirelessly to quarantine those in the early stages of the disease, but this effort has done little to stop its spread. Due to the rarity of crimson lady’s veil, many citizens began to carry or consume all manner of flowers and snake sheddings in an attempt to protect or cure themselves. 

In the initial stages, victims are afflicted with a hacking cough laden with dust that resembles powdered bone. Then a scaled rash erupts across their skin, cracking their flesh in a unique and painful pattern that resembles a snake’s skin. Not long after, the victims’ bodies harden until their organs solidify and cease to function. The final stages of the Serpent’s Sickness is so quick that many transform into statues where they stand, leaving all of Haven a cenotaph to a once-great power. 

LADY’S VEIL These small flowers grow in patches of sun throughout Fanewick. For every ten thousand blossoms of white-petaled flowers, one blooms a unique and vibrant red. These flowers have long been used in herbal teas across the region, with the crimson flowers holding a place in specific ceremonies. Even so, they were only foraged until the Havenites discovered crimson lady’s veil—the only known cure for Serpent’s Sickness. 

Thus, the Haven Army invaded Fanewick and began cultivating the flowers on massive farms that have overtaken the region’s bogs. Though the theft of the Reaping Eye has created an indefinite growing season, the red flowers remain just as rare, and Fanewick is permeated by a sickly sweet smell as the Haven Army races to mass-produce a cure for the Serpent’s Sickness. 

THE WITHERWILD This corruption, empowered by the endless spring, is spreading throughout Fanewick. Some believe the overgrowth began in the forest, while others claim it sprang from the bogs. But no matter its origins, this flourishing malignancy induces horrific changes and massive growth on anything it touches, transforming them into Withered beings. Plants spring to life with a desire to consume all around them. Animals grow to immense proportions, with onerous dispositions to match their exaggerated teeth, tusks, and claws. Even harmless creatures that were once hunted for food have become dangerous and formidable adversaries. 

When a person is corrupted by the Witherwild, either from a purposeful attack or accidental harm (see the upcoming “Corruption from the Witherwild” section), they are transformed. They become a nightmarish hybrid—their body warped and intertwined with plant or beast. The Witherwild slowly replaces the personality of its victims with the same drive to consume exhibited by the rest of the corrupted Fanewick. Though the Withered may retain a semblance of who they are for a time, they eventually face the final loss of their personhood. Some Wicklings believe the Withered are gifted this power by Nikta’s wrath to drive the forces of Haven from Fanewick and return the Shepherd’s Reaping Eye. 

THE GODS OF FANEWICK Gods in this land aren’t ethereal concepts that exist in another realm; instead, they wander the land as incarnate beings, residing in both the natural world as well as within homes and small villages. As such, they’re generally present in Wicklings’ lives. Many communities, and some larger families, even have their own small god or tutelary spirit who watches over them. 

Belief and worship take on a different meaning in Fanewick— there is a constant push and pull between the goals of people and their deific neighbors. The gods must curry worship from mortals, often by performing small miracles, acts of service, or by testing their resolve with tricks and curses. Mortals rely on the small blessings from the gods to keep them safe when traveling and working in Fanewick. The most powerful and widely acknowledged Faint Divinity is the Shepherd of Seasons, Nikta, as the loss of her eye had the most recent and visible impact on everyone in Fanewick. 

Fanewick’s various divinities each have their own opinion concerning the Witherwild corruption. While some enjoy nature’s newfound dominance, many of the lesser deities are wary of how out of balance Fanewick has become. While their behavior and motives may be inscrutable, these deities are more accessible than gods who watch from on high. 

Fulg, Stacker of Stones: A small god who favors tribute in the form of smooth, stacked river rocks. Under his power, bivalves and limpets grow abundantly on rocks where they can be easily harvested. He is largely uninformed about the problems Fanewick faces, and he prefers it that way. 

Hyacynis, They Who Spread Small Blossoms: A friend of 

bees and tiny flowers who has embraced the Witherwild 

after seeing their influence and domain swell (literally) 

to immense proportions. They’re enjoying this rampant 

growth and do not see a reason to end it. 

 Ikla, the Sky Painter: Ikla’s artistic prowess and talent are unmatched, painting the skies of each weekly sunrise and sunset over Fanewick in a myriad of scintillating colors. They could not be lazier the rest of the week, and their demeanor is exceedingly unpleasant, offended that anyone would ask a favor of them during their time off. 

Oove, the Watcher of the Night Bloom: He is one of the few local gods who has never been seen, but he is often heard in the wilds at night, whispering directions to lost travelers, pointing them to the nearest source of night bloom. Locals claim he leads those who displease him or harm nocturnal creatures into dangerous terrain. It’s rumored that he watches over Fanewick nights from his home on the moon. 

Qui’Gar, Whispered Sweetness for a Thorny End: A quiet god who presides over the deaths of those who pass in thorny bushes and briar patches. Traditionally, she doesn’t receive many visitors, but the Witherwild’s corruptive growth has made her job harder and upended her quiet existence. 

Rohkin, the Wandering Horn: Rohkin watches over the many herds of horned creatures that reside in Fanewick. In happier times, he preserved the balance of nature and civilization, preventing overhunting. But since the corruption of the Witherwild has taken hold, he’s seen his herds change into unrecognizable, dangerous beasts. 

These are but a small slice of the hundreds, if not thousands, of Faint Divinities lurking, relaxing, hunting, and playing throughout Fanewick. 

What Faint Divinities do the PCs acknowledge and pay tribute to, if any? 

How has the Witherwild changed the outlook, personality, and dispositions of the Faint Divinities the characters encounter? 

Which gods ally themselves with Haven to preserve the endless spring? Which align with Fanewick? 

THE INCITING INCIDENT 

You can use the prompt below to start your campaign, or create your own. 

The Reaping Eye is stowed in a secure vault beneath the central tower of Haven’s wizarding school, seemingly impossible to recover. A secretive and dangerous rebel group, led by a mysterious figure known only as the Fanewraith (she/ her), has hatched a plan to end the curse of the Witherwild: find the Great Owl, Nikta, and pluck out the Sowing Eye. While this may solve the immediate problem, the long-term consequences are not being considered, just as they weren’t when Haven invaded. 

Haven’s beleaguered spymaster, Kreil Dirn (he/him), is not a popular person in Haven. He is responsible for rooting out insurgents, stopping schemes before they have a chance to start, and keeping a close watch on Haven’s internal activities. Kreil has never agreed—at least not openly—with Archmage 

Phylax’s (they/them) decision to steal the Reaping Eye, and the consequences they’ve all paid for that decision have been grimly vindicating. 

Recently, Kreil uncovered the Fanewraith’s plot and is horrified by the possibility of her success. Knowing he can’t send a troop of Haven soldiers deep into the woods to hunt down and stop the Fanewraith from stealing the Sowing Eye, Kreil uses his vast network of informants and spies to find a group of adventurers who can bring the Fanewraith to swift justice. 

The party is sent an invitation from Haven to meet with Kreil. But is his information correct? Does he have his own motivation or secret ambition? Whether they come from Fanewick or Haven, the party must extend some trust to a person who is equally as dangerous and mercurial as the “enemy” they pursue. And what will they do when they find the Fanewraith? Bring her to justice? Side with her? Attempt to recover the Reaping Eye? 

Kreil advises the party to start their hunt for the Fanewraith in the treetop village of Alula, where he suspects she runs her operation. 

CAMPAIGN MECHANICS 

The following mechanics are unique to this campaign. 

CORRUPTION FROM THE WITHERWILD Adversaries and environments in this campaign can gain an additional type called Withered. When an adversary is Withered, describe how the Witherwild changed or impacted how they would normally appear or operate. You also need about 20 Wither tokens (these can be the same as the tokens you use for Fear). 

Any time a PC takes Severe damage from a Withered adversary or environment, gain a Wither token and place it on that PC’s character sheet. When you do, the PC must roll their Fear Die. If they roll equal to or below the number of Wither tokens on their sheet, they immediately gain a scar and clear all tokens, describing how the Witherwild changes them permanently. 

At the end of each session, clear all Wither tokens from the PCs’ sheets and gain an equal amount of Fear. If a character ever dies with Wither tokens on their sheet, their body is permanently taken over by the Witherwild. 

SESSION ZERO QUESTIONS 

Ask any of these questions to your players, or make your own. 

What dangerous animal comes out during the week of night that isn’t out during the week of day? 

What unique trait (such as appearance, smell, or taste) does anything tainted by the Witherwild have? 

What superstitions does your character or their community have about traversing Fanewick during the long nights? 

Your character has witnessed something beautiful that came from the Witherwild. What is it and how has it transformed their view of the corruption? 

 APPENDIX 

This section contains additional information and reference sheets. 

Domain Card reference 

ARCANA DOMAIN RUNE WARD Level 1 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 0 You have a deeply personal trinket that can be infused with protective magic and held as a ward by you or an ally. Describe what it is and why it’s important to you. The ward’s holder can spend a Hope to reduce incoming damage by 1d8. 

If the Ward Die result is 8, the ward’s power ends after it reduces damage this turn. It can be recharged for free on your next rest. 

UNLEASH CHAOS Level 1 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 At the beginning of a session, place a number of tokens equal to your Spellcast trait on this card. 

Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range and spend any number of tokens to channel raw energy from within yourself to unleash against them. On a success, roll a number of d10s equal to the tokens you spent and deal that much magic damage to the target. Mark a Stress to replenish this card with tokens (up to your Spellcast trait). 

At the end of each session, clear all unspent tokens. 

WALLWALK Level 1 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 Spend a Hope to allow a creature you can touch to climb on walls and ceilings as easily as walking on the ground. This lasts until the end of the scene or you cast Wall Walk again 

CINDER GRASP Level 2 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Melee range. On a success, the target instantly bursts into flames, takes 1d20+3 magic damage, and is temporarily lit On Fire. 

When a creature acts while On Fire, they must take an extra 2d6 magic damage if they are still On Fire at the end of their action. 

FLOATING EYE Level 2 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 0 Spend a Hope to create a single, small floating orb that you can move anywhere within Very Far range. While this spell is active, you can see through the orb as though you’re looking out from its position. You can transition between using your own senses and seeing through the orb freely. If the orb takes damage or moves out of range, the spell ends. 

COUNTERSPELL Level 3 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 2 

You can interrupt a magical effect taking place by making a reaction roll using your Spellcast trait. On a success, the effect stops and any consequences are avoided, and this card is placed in your vault. 

FLIGHT Level 3 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 

Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, place a number of tokens equal to your Agility on this card (minimum 1). When you make an action roll while flying, spend a token from this card. After the action that spends the last token is resolved, you descend to the ground directly below you. 

BLINKOUT Level 4 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll (12). On a success, spend a Hope to teleport to another point you can see within Far range. If any willing creatures are within Very Close range, spend an additional Hope for each creature to bring them with you. 

PRESERVATION BLAST Level 4 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 2 Make a Spellcast Roll against all targets within Melee range. Targets you succeed against are forced back to Far range and take d8+3 magic damage using your Spellcast trait. 

CHAIN LIGHTNING Level 5 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 Mark 2 Stress to make a Spellcast Roll, unleashing lightning on all targets within Close range. Targets you succeed against must make a reaction roll with a Difficulty equal to the result of your Spellcast Roll. Targets who fail take 2d8+4 magic damage. Additional adversaries not already targeted by Chain Lightning and within Close range of previous targets who took damage must also make the reaction roll. Targets who fail take 2d8+4 magic damage. This chain continues until there are no more adversaries within range. 

 Make a Spellcast Roll against all adversaries within Far range. Mark any number of Stress to make shards of arcana rain down from above. Targets you succeed against take 1d20+2 magic damage for each Stress marked. 

FALLING SKY Level 10 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 After you or a willing ally make any roll, you can spend 5 Hope to change the numerical result of that roll to a result of your choice instead. The result must be plausible within the range of the dice. 

ADJUSTREALITY Level 10 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 Once per rest, make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, drop into a vision that lets you clearly see and hear any place you have been before as though you are standing there in this moment. You can move freely in this vision and are not constrained by the physics or impediments of a physical body. This spell cannot be detected by mundane or magical means. You drop out of this vision upon taking damage or casting another spell. 

SENSORYPROJECTION Level 9 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 0 Additionally, when you succeed on the Spellcast Roll, all terrain within Very Far range becomes difficult to move through and structures within this range might sustain damage or crumble. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (16). Once per rest on a success, all targets within Very Far range who aren’t flying must make a Reaction Roll (18). Targets who fail take 3d10+8 physical damage and are temporarily Vulnerable. Targets who succeed take half damage. 

EARTHQUAKE Level 9 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 2 

Make a Spellcast Roll (14). Once per long rest on a success, you create a layer of illusion over your body that makes it hard to tell exactly where you are. Mark any number of Stress to make that many additional layers. When an adversary makes an attack against you, roll a number of d6s equal to the number of layers currently active. If any roll a 5 or higher, one layer of the aura is destroyed and the attack fails. If all the results are 4 or lower, you take the damage and this spell ends 

CONFUSING AURA Level 8 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 2 When you would take magic damage, you can spend any number of Hope to roll that many d6s. If any roll a 6, the attack is reflected back to the caster, dealing the damage to them instead. 

ARCANE REFLECTION Level 8 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 1 When you make a successful Spellcast Roll to cast a different spell, you can spend a Hope to become Cloaked. While Cloaked, you remain unseen if you are stationary when an adversary moves to where they would normally see you. When you move into or within an adversary’s line of sight or make an attack, you are no longer Cloaked. 

CLOAKING BLAST Level 7 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 2 • Once per rest, you can switch the results of your Hope and Fear Dice. • +1 bonus to your Spellcast Rolls 

When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Arcana domain, gain the following benefits: 

ARCANA-TOUCHED Level 7 Arcana Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On a success, you can use your mind to move them anywhere within Far range of their original position. You can throw the lifted target as an attack by making an additional Spellcast Roll against the second target you’re trying to attack. On a success, deal d12+4 physical damage to the second target using your Proficiency. This spell then ends. 

TELEKINESIS Level 6 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 0 

You can drop the spell at any time to cast Rift Walker again and place the marking somewhere new. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, you place an arcane marking on the ground where you currently stand. The next time you successfully cast Rift Walker, a rift in space opens up, providing safe passage back to the exact spot where the marking was placed. This rift stays open until you choose to close it or you cast another spell. 

RIFTWALKER Level 6 Arcana Spell Recall Cost: 2 You can channel arcane energy to have visions of the future. Once per long rest, immediately after the GM conveys the consequences of a roll you made, you can rescind the move and consequences like they never happened and make another move instead. 

 BLADE DOMAIN BLADE DOMAIN GET BACK UP Level 1 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you take Severe damage, you can mark a Stress to reduce the severity by one threshold. 

NOT GOOD ENOUGH Level 1 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you roll your damage dice, you can reroll any 1s or 2s. 

WHIRLWIND Level 1 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 0 

When you make a successful attack against a target within Very Close range, you can spend a Hope to use the attack against all other targets within Very Close range. All additional adversaries you succeed against with this ability take half damage. 

A SOLDIER’S BOND Level 2 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Once per long rest, when you compliment someone or ask them about something they’re good at, you can both gain 3 Hope. 

RECKLESS Level 2 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Mark a Stress to gain advantage on an attack. 

SCRAMBLE Level 3 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Once per rest, when a creature within Melee range would deal damage to you, you can avoid the attack and safely move out of Melee range of the enemy. 

VERSATILE FIGHTER Level 3 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

You can use a different character trait for an equipped weapon, rather than the trait the weapon calls for. 

When you deal damage, you can mark a Stress to use the maximum result of one of your damage dice instead of rolling it. 

DEADLY FOCUS Level 4 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Once per rest, you can apply all your focus toward a target of your choice. Until you attack another creature, you defeat the target, or the battle ends, gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency. 

FORTIFIED ARMOR Level 4 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 0 

While you are wearing armor, gain a +2 bonus to your damage thresholds. 

CHAMPION’S EDGE Level 5 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you critically succeed on an attack, you can spend up to 3 Hope and choose one of the following options for each Hope spent: 

• You clear a Hit Point. • You clear an Armor Slot. • The target must mark an additional Hit Point. You can’t choose the same option more than once. 

VITALITY Level 5 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 0 

When you choose this card, permanently gain two of the following benefits: 

• One Stress slot • One Hit Point slot • +2 bonus to your damage thresholds 

Then place this card in your vault permanently. 

BATTLE-HARDENED Level 6 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Once per long rest when you would make a Death Move, you can spend a Hope to clear a Hit Point instead. 

RAGE UP Level 6 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Before you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to gain a bonus to your damage roll equal to twice your Strength. 

You can Rage Up twice per attack. 

BLADE-TOUCHED Level 7 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Blade domain, gain the following benefits: 

• +2 bonus to your attack rolls 

• +4 bonus to your Severe damage threshold 

GLANCING BLOW Level 7 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you fail an attack, you can mark a Stress to deal weapon damage using half your Proficiency. 

BATTLE CRY Level 8 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Once per long rest, while you’re charging into danger, you can muster a rousing call that inspires your allies. All allies who can hear you each clear a Stress and gain a Hope. Additionally, your allies gain advantage on attack rolls until you or an ally rolls a failure with Fear. 

 When making a Tag Team Roll, you can roll a d20 as your Hope Die. 

When you Help an Ally, they can spend a Hope to add one of your Experiences to their roll alongside your advantage die. 

TACTICIAN Level 3 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you mark an Armor Slot to reduce incoming damage, you can mark a Stress to mark an additional Armor Slot. 

BRACE Level 3 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you take a long rest, clear all unspent tokens. 

• You add a d8 to your damage roll. • You clear a Stress on an ally within Melee range of the adversary. • You make the attack with advantage. After a long rest, place a number of tokens equal to your Knowledge on this card (minimum 1). The first time you move within Close range of an adversary and make an attack against them, you can spend one token to choose one of the following options: 

STRATEGIC APPROACH Level 2 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 When you cause an adversary to mark 1 or more Hit Points, you can spend 2 Hope to increase your Evasion by the number of Hit Points they marked. This bonus lasts until after the next attack made against you. 

FEROCITY Level 2 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Gain a bonus to your Evasion equal to half your Agility. 

UNTOUCHABLE Level 1 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you’re targeted by an attack made from beyond Melee range, you can mark a Stress to roll a d4 and gain a bonus to your Evasion equal to the result against the attack. 

I SEE IT COMING Level 1 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 If you end this movement within Melee range of an adversary and immediately make an attack against them, gain a +1 bonus to the attack roll. 

Once per rest, mark a Stress to sprint anywhere within Far range without making an Agility Roll to get there. 

DEFTMANEUVERS Level 1 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 0 On a failure, the target must mark a Hit Point. 

Additionally, when a creature within your weapon’s range deals damage to an ally with an attack that doesn’t include you, you can mark a Stress to force them to make a Reaction Roll (15). 

When you successfully make an attack with your weapon, you never deal damage beneath a target’s Major damage threshold (the target always marks a minimum of 2 Hit Points). 

ONSLAUGHT Level 10 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 3 

When you make a successful attack against an adversary, you can mark 4 Stress to force the target to mark a number of Hit Points equal to the number of Hit Points you currently have marked instead of rolling for damage. 

BATTLE MONSTER Level 10 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 0 REAPER’S STRIKE Level 9 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 3 Once per long rest, spend a Hope to make an attack roll. The GM tells you which targets within range it would succeed against. Choose one of these targets and force them to mark 5 Hit Points. Additionally, when you deal enough damage to defeat an enemy, gain a Hope or clear a Stress. 

When you critically succeed on a weapon attack, gain an additional Hope or clear an additional Stress. 

GORE AND GLORY Level 9 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 2 FRENZY Level 8 Blade Ability Recall Cost: 3 

Once per long rest, you can go into a Frenzy until there are no more adversaries within sight. 

While Frenzied, you can’t use Armor Slots, and you gain a +10 bonus to your damage rolls and a +8 bonus to your Severe damage threshold. 

BONE DOMAIN  BOOST Level 4 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Mark a Stress to boost off a willing ally within Close range, fling yourself into the air, and perform an aerial attack against a target within Far range. You have advantage on the attack, add a d10 to the damage roll, and end your move within Melee range of the target. 

REDIRECT Level 4 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When an attack made against you from beyond Melee range fails, roll a number of d6s equal to your Proficiency. If any roll a 6, you can mark a Stress to redirect the attack to damage an adversary within Very Close range instead. 

KNOW THY ENEMY Level 5 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When observing a creature, you can make an Instinct Roll against them. On a success, spend a Hope and ask the GM for one set of information about the target from the following options: 

• Their unmarked Hit Points and Stress. • Their Difficulty and damage thresholds. • Their tactics and standard attack damage dice. • Their features and Experiences. Additionally on a success, you can mark a Stress to remove a Fear from the GM’s Fear Pool. 

SIGNATURE MOVE Level 5 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Name and describe your signature combat move. Once per rest, when you perform this signature move as part of an action you’re taking, you can roll a d20 as your Hope Die. On a success, clear a Stress. 

RAPID RIPOSTE Level 6 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 0 

When an attack made against you from within Melee range fails, you can mark a Stress and seize the opportunity to deal the weapon damage of one of your active weapons to the attacker. 

RECOVERY Level 6 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

During a short rest, you can choose a long rest downtime move instead. You can spend a Hope to let an ally do the same. 

BONE-TOUCHED Level 7 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 2 

When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Bone domain, gain the following benefits: 

• +1 bonus to Agility 

• Once per rest, you can spend 3 Hope to cause an attack that succeeded against you to fail instead. CRUEL PRECISION Level 7 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you make a successful attack with a weapon, gain a bonus to your damage roll equal to either your Finesse or Agility. 

BREAKING BLOW Level 8 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 3 

When you make a successful attack, you can mark a Stress to make the next successful attack against that same target deal an extra 2d12 damage. 

WRANGLE Level 8 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Make an Agility Roll against all targets within Close range. Spend a Hope to move targets you succeed against, and any willing allies within Close range, to another point within Close range. 

ON THE BRINK Level 9 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you have 2 or fewer Hit Points unmarked, you don’t take Minor damage. 

SPLINTERING STRIKE Level 9 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 3 

Spend a Hope and make an attack against all adversaries within your weapon’s range. Once per long rest, on a success against any targets, add up the damage dealt, then redistribute that damage however you wish between the targets you succeeded against. When you deal damage to a target, roll an additional damage die and add its result to the damage you deal to that target. 

DEATHRUN Level 10 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Spend 3 Hope to run a straight path through the battlefield to a point within Far range, making an attack against all adversaries within your weapon’s range along that path. Choose the order in which you deal damage to the targets you succeeded against. For the first, roll your weapon damage with a +1 bonus to your Proficiency. Then remove a die from your damage roll and deal the remaining damage to the next target. Continue to remove a die for each subsequent target until you have no more damage dice or adversaries. 

You can’t target the same adversary more than once per attack. 

SWIFT STEP Level 10 Bone Ability Recall Cost: 2 

When an attack made against you fails, clear a Stress. If you can’t clear a Stress, gain a Hope. 

 CODEX DOMAIN CODEX DOMAIN BOOK OF AVA Level 1 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Power Push: Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Melee range. On a success, they’re knocked back to Far range and take d10+2 magic damage using your Proficiency. 

Tava’s Armor: Spend a Hope to give a target you can touch a +1 bonus to their Armor Score until their next rest or you cast Tava’s Armor again. 

Ice Spike: Make a Spellcast Roll (12) to summon a large ice spike within Far range. If you use it as a weapon, make the Spellcast Roll against the target’s Difficulty instead. On a success, deal d6 physical damage using your Proficiency. 

BOOK OF ILLIAT Level 1 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Slumber: Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Very Close range. On a success, they’re Asleep until they take damage or the GM spends a Fear on their turn to clear this condition. 

Arcane Barrage: Once per rest, spend any number of Hope and shoot magical projectiles that strike a target of your choice within Close range. Roll a number of d6s equal to the Hope spent and deal that much magic damage to the target. 

Telepathy: Spend a Hope to open a line of mental communication with one target you can see. This connection lasts until your next rest or you cast Telepathy again. 

BOOK OF TYFAR Level 1 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Wild Flame: Make a Spellcast Roll against up to three adversaries within Melee range. Targets you succeed against take 2d6 magic damage and must mark a Stress as flames erupt from your hand. 

Magic Hand: You conjure a magical hand with the same size and strength as your own within Far range. 

Mysterious Mist: Make a Spellcast Roll (13) to cast a temporary thick fog that gathers in a stationary area within Very Close range. The fog heavily obscures this area and everything in it. 

BOOK OF SITIL Level 2 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Adjust Appearance: You magically shift your appearance and clothing to avoid recognition. 

Parallela: Spend 2 Hope to cast this spell on yourself or an ally within Close range. The next time the target makes an attack, they can hit an additional target within range that their attack roll would succeed against. You can only hold this spell on one creature at a time. 

Illusion: Make a Spellcast Roll (14). On a success, create a temporary visual illusion no larger than you within Close range that lasts for as long as you look at it. It holds up to scrutiny until an observer is within Melee range. 

BOOK OF VAGRAS Level 2 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Runic Lock: Make a Spellcast Roll (15) on an object you’re touching that can close (such as a lock, chest, or box). Once per rest on a success, you can lock the object so it can only be opened by creatures of your choice. Someone with access to magic and an hour of time to study the spell can break it. 

Arcane Door: When you have no adversaries within Melee range, make a Spellcast Roll (13). On a success, spend a Hope to create a portal from where you are to a point within Far range you can see. It closes once a creature has passed through it. 

Reveal: Make a Spellcast Roll. If there is anything magically hidden within Close range, it is revealed. 

BOOK OF KORVAX Level 3 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Levitation: Make a Spellcast Roll to temporarily lift a target you can see up into the air and move them within Close range of their original position. 

Recant: Spend a Hope to force a target within Melee range to make a Reaction Roll (15). On a failure, they forget the last minute of your conversation. 

Rune Circle: Mark a Stress to create a temporary magical circle on the ground where you stand. All adversaries within Melee range, or who enter Melee range, take 2d12+4 magic damage and are knocked back to Very Close range. 

BOOK OF NORAI Level 3 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 

Mystic Tether: Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On a success, they’re temporarily Restrained and must mark a Stress. If you target a flying creature, this spell grounds and temporarily Restrains them. 

Fireball: Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Very Far range. On a success, hurl a sphere of fire toward them that explodes on impact. The target and all creatures within Very Close range of them must make a Reaction Roll (13). Targets who fail take d20+5 magic damage using your Proficiency. Targets who succeed take half damage. 

BOOK OF EXOTA Level 4 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 3 

Repudiate: You can interrupt a magical effect taking place. Make a reaction roll using your Spellcast trait. Once per rest on a success, the effect stops and any consequences are avoided. 

Create Construct: Spend a Hope to choose a group of objects around you and create an animated construct from them that obeys basic commands. Make a Spellcast Roll to command them to take action. When necessary, they share your Evasion and traits and their attacks deal 2d10+3 physical damage. You can only maintain one construct at a time, and they fall apart when they take any amount of damage. 

 When you take a rest within your own Safe Haven, you can choose an additional downtime move. 

When you have a few minutes of calm to focus, you can spend 2 Hope to summon your Safe Haven, a large interdimensional home where you and your allies can take shelter. When you do, a magical door appears somewhere within Close range. Only creatures of your choice can enter. Once inside, you can make the entrance invisible. You and anyone else inside can always exit. Once you leave, the doorway must be summoned again. 

SAFE HAVEN Level 8 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 3 Shared Clarity: Once per long rest, spend a Hope to choose two willing creatures. When one of them would mark Stress, they can choose between the two of them who marks it. This spell lasts until their next rest. 

Memory Delve: Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On a success, peer into the target’s mind and ask the GM a question. The GM describes any memories the target has pertaining to the answer. 

BOOK OF VYOLA Level 8 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 • Once per rest, replace this card with any card from your vault without paying its Recall Cost. • You can mark a Stress to add your Proficiency to a Spellcast Roll. When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Codex domain, gain the following benefits: 

CODEX-TOUCHED Level 7 Codex Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Plane Gate: Make a Spellcast Roll (14). Once per long rest on a success, open a gateway to a location in another dimension or plane of existence you’ve been to before. This gateway lasts until your next rest. 

Pass Through: Make a Spellcast Roll (13). Once per rest on a success, you and all creatures touching you can pass through a wall or door within Close range. The effect ends once everyone is on the other side. 

BOOKOF HOMET Level 7 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 0 Mark an adversary within Close range with a sigil of retribution. The GM gains a Fear. When the marked adversary deals damage to you or your allies, place a d8 on this card. You can hold a number of d8s equal to your level. When you successfully attack the marked adversary, roll the dice on this card and add the total to your damage roll, then clear the dice. This effect ends when the marked adversary is defeated or you cast Sigil of Retribution again. 

SIGILOF RETRIBUTION Level 6 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 2 When the PCs roll with Fear, the Difficulty gains a −1 penalty and the target makes another reaction roll. On a success, they return from banishment. 

Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Close range. On a success, roll a number of d20s equal to your Spellcast trait. The target must make a reaction roll with a Difficulty equal to your highest result. On a success, the target must mark a Stress but isn’t banished. Once per rest on a failure, they are banished from this realm. 

BANISH Level 6 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 0 

On a success, you appear where you were intending to go. On a failure, you appear off course, with the range of failure determining how far off course. 

• If you’ve only been there once, gain a −2 penalty. • If you’ve visited the place infrequently, gain no modifier. • If you’ve visited the place frequently, gain a +1 bonus. • If you know the place very well, gain a +3 bonus. Once per long rest, you can instantly teleport yourself and any number of willing targets within Close range to a place you’ve been before. Choose one of the following options, then make a Spellcast Roll (16): 

TELEPORT Level 5 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 2 

Make a Spellcast Roll (15). Once per rest on a success, spend a Hope to create a temporary magical wall between two points within Far range. It can be up to 50 feet high and form at any angle. Creatures or objects in its path are shunted to a side of your choice. The wall stays up until your next rest or you cast Manifest Wall again. 

MANIFESTWALL Level 5 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 2 Wall of Flame: Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, create a a wall of magical flame between two points within Far range. All creatures in its path must choose a side to be on, and anything that subsequently passes through the wall takes 4d10+3 magic damage. 

Time Lock: Target an object within Far range. That object stops in time and space exactly where it is until your next rest. If a creature tries to move it, make a Spellcast Roll against them to maintain this spell. 

Arcane Deflection: Once per long rest, spend a Hope to negate the damage of an attack targeting you or an ally within Very Close range. 

BOOKOF GRYNN Level 4 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2  During a short rest, when you take the time to comfort another character while using the Tend to Wounds downtime move on them, clear an additional Hit Point on that character. When you do, you also clear 2 Hit Points. 

SOOTHING SPEECH Level 4 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 1 You can only hold Invisibility on one creature at a time. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (10). On a success, mark a Stress and choose yourself or an ally within Melee range to become Invisible. An Invisible creature can’t be seen except through magical means and attack rolls against them are made with disadvantage. Place a number of tokens on this card equal to your Spellcast trait. When the Invisible creature takes an action, spend a token from this card. After the action that spends the last token is resolved, the effect ends. 

INVISIBILITY Level 3 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 1 

Make a Spellcast Roll against all adversaries in front of you within Close range. Once per rest on a success, create an illusion of flashing colors and lights that temporarily Stuns targets you succeed against and forces them to mark a Stress. While Stunned, they can’t use reactions and can’t take any other actions until they clear this condition. 

HYPNOTIC SHIMMER Level 3 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 1 When you taunt or provoke a target within Far range, make a Presence Roll against them. Once per rest on a success, roll a number of d4s equal to your Proficiency. The target must mark Stress equal to the highest result rolled. 

TROUBLEMAKER Level 2 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Very Close range. On a success, they can’t lie to you while they remain within Close range, but they are not compelled to speak. If you ask them a question and they refuse to answer, they must mark a Stress and the effect ends. The target is typically unaware this spell has been cast on them until it causes them to utter the truth. 

TELLNO LIES Level 2 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 1 When you take a long rest, clear all unspent tokens. 

• Your ally gains a Hope. • Your ally clears a Hit Point. • Your ally clears a Stress. Your speech is imbued with power. After a long rest, place a number of tokens on this card equal to your Presence. When you speak with an ally, you can spend a token from this card to give them one benefit from the following options: 

INSPIRATIONALWORDS Level 1 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Close range. On a success, they become temporarily Enraptured. While Enraptured, a target’s attention is fixed on you, narrowing their field of view and drowning out any sound but your voice. Once per rest on a success, you can mark a Stress to force the Enraptured target to mark a Stress as well. 

ENRAPTURE Level 1 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 0 

Spend a Hope to gain advantage on a roll to deceive or trick someone into believing a lie you tell them. 

DEFTDECEIVER Level 1 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 0 Once per long rest, spend 5 Hope to cast this spell on two or more willing creatures. Until your next rest, when a creature connected by this union would mark Stress or Hit Points, the connected creatures can choose who marks it. 

TRANSCENDENTUNION Level 10 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 1 Magic Immunity: Spend 5 Hope to become immune to magic damage until your next rest. 

Timejammer: Make a Spellcast Roll (18). On a success, time temporarily slows to a halt for everyone within Far range except for you. It resumes the next time you make an action roll that targets another creature. 

BOOK OF YARROW Level 10 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 2 Make a Spellcast Roll (18). Once per long rest on a success, the GM tells you which adversaries within Far range have a Difficulty of 18 or lower. Mark a Stress for each one you wish to hit with this spell. They are killed and can’t come back to life by any means. 

DISINTEGRATION WAVE Level 9 Codex Spell Recall Cost: 4 Eternal Enervation: Once per long rest, make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Close range. On a success, they become permanently Vulnerable. They can’t clear this condition by any means. 

Transform: Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, transform into an inanimate object no larger than twice your normal size. You can remain in this shape until you take damage. 

BOOKOF RONIN Level 9 Codex Grimoire Recall Cost: 4 GRACE DOMAIN  This card doesn’t count against your loadout’s domain card maximum of 5 and can’t be placed in your vault. 

People know who you are and what you’ve done, and they treat you differently because of it. When you leverage your notoriety to get what you want, you can mark a Stress before you roll to gain a +10 bonus to the result. Your food and drinks are always free wherever you go, and everything else you buy is reduced in price by one bag of gold (to a minimum of one handful). 

NOTORIOUS Level 10 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 0 

When an ally within Close range deals damage to an adversary, you can make a Spellcast Roll against that same target. On a success, you deal the same damage to the target that your ally dealt. If your Spellcast Roll succeeds with Fear, place this card in your vault. 

ENCORE Level 10 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 1 

Gain a permanent +2 bonus to two of your Experiences or a permanent +3 bonus to one of your Experiences. Then place this card in your vault permanently. 

MASTER OF THE CRAFT Level 9 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 0 Once per long rest, this card can mimic the features of another domain card of level 8 or lower in another player’s loadout. Spend Hope equal to half the card’s level to gain access to the feature. It lasts until your next rest or they place the card in their vault. 

COPYCAT Level 9 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 3 

Make a Spellcast Roll against all targets within Far range. Targets you succeed against become temporarily Enraptured. While Enraptured, a target’s attention is fixed on you, narrowing their field of view and drowning out any sound but your voice. Mark a Stress to force all Enraptured targets to mark a Stress, ending this spell. 

MASS ENRAPTURE Level 8 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 3 You can see and hear through the projection as though it were you and affect the world as though you were there. A creature investigating the projection can tell it’s of magical origin. This effect lasts until your next rest or your projection takes any damage. 

Once per long rest, mark a Stress to create a projected copy of yourself that can appear anywhere you’ve been before. 

ASTRALPROJECTION Level 8 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 0 • When you would force a target to mark a number of Hit Points, you can choose instead to force them to mark that number of Stress. • You can mark an Armor Slot instead of marking a Stress. When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Grace domain, gain the following benefits: 

GRACE-TOUCHED Level 7 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 2 

After you make an action roll to persuade, lie, or garner favor, you can spend a Hope to reroll the Hope or Fear Die. 

ENDLESS CHARISMA Level 7 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 1 Once per rest, take on the Stress from a willing creature within Melee range. The target describes what intimate knowledge or emotions telepathically leak from their mind in this moment between you. Transfer any number of their marked Stress to you, then gain a Hope for each Stress transferred. 

SHARE THE BURDEN Level 6 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 0 When you mark 1 or more Hit Points from an attack, you can mark a Stress to place a number of tokens equal to the number of Hit Points you marked on this card. On your next successful attack, gain a +5 bonus to your damage roll for each token on this card, then clear all tokens. 

NEVER UPSTAGED Level 6 Grace Ability Recall Cost: 2 Once this attack is over, the target realizes what happened. The next time you cast Words of Discord on them, gain a −5 penalty to the Spellcast Roll. 

Whisper words of discord to an adversary within Melee range and make a Spellcast Roll (13). On a success, the target must mark a Stress and make an attack against another adversary instead of against you or your allies. 

WORDS OF DISCORD Level 5 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 1 On a roll with Fear, the target might, at the GM’s discretion, become aware that you’re reading their thoughts. 

You can peek into the minds of others. Spend a Hope to read the vague surface thoughts of a target within Far range. Make a Spellcast Roll against the target to delve for deeper, more hidden thoughts. 

THOUGHTDELVER Level 5 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 2 THROUGH YOUR EYES Level 4 Grace Spell Recall Cost: 1 Choose a target within Very Far range. You can see through their eyes and hear through their ears. You can transition between using your own senses or the target’s freely until you cast another spell or until your next rest. 

 MIDNIGHT DOMAIN MIDNIGHT DOMAIN PICKAND PULL Level 1 Midnight Ability Recall Cost: 0 You have advantage on action rolls to pick nonmagical locks, disarm nonmagical traps, or steal items from a target (either through stealth or by force). 

RAIN OF BLADES Level 1 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 Spend a Hope to make a Spellcast Roll and conjure throwing blades that strike out at all targets within Very Close range. Targets you succeed against take d8+2 magic damage using your Proficiency. 

If a target you hit is Vulnerable, they take an extra 1d8 damage. 

UNCANNYDISGUISE Level 1 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 0 When you have a few minutes to prepare, you can mark a Stress to don the facade of any humanoid you can picture clearly in your mind. While disguised, you have advantage on Presence Rolls to avoid scrutiny. 

Place a number of tokens equal to your Spellcast trait on this card. When you take an action while disguised, spend a token from this card. After the action that spends the last token is resolved, the disguise drops. 

MIDNIGHTSPIRIT Level 2 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 Spend a Hope to summon a humanoid-sized spirit that can move or carry things for you until your next rest. 

You can also send it to attack an adversary. When you do, make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Very Far range. On a success, the spirit moves into Melee range with that target. Roll a number of d6s equal to your Spellcast trait and deal that much magic damage to the target. The spirit then dissipates. You can only have one spirit at a time. 

SHADOWBIND Level 2 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 0 

Make a Spellcast Roll against all adversaries within Very Close range. Targets you succeed against are temporarily Restrained as their shadow binds them in place. 

CHOKEHOLD Level 3 Midnight Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you position yourself behind a creature who’s about your size, you can mark a Stress to pull them into a chokehold, making them temporarily Vulnerable. 

When a creature attacks a target who is Vulnerable in this way, they deal an extra 2d6 damage. 

VEILOF NIGHT Level 3 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll (13). On a success, you can create a temporary curtain of darkness between two points within Far range. Only you can see through this darkness. You’re considered Hidden to adversaries on the other side of the veil, and you have advantage on attacks you make through the darkness. The veil remains until you cast another spell. 

STEALTH EXPERTISE Level 4 Midnight Ability Recall Cost: 0 When you roll with Fear while attempting to move unnoticed through a dangerous area, you can mark a Stress to roll with Hope instead. 

If an ally within Close range is also attempting to move unnoticed and rolls with Fear, you can mark a Stress to change their result to a roll with Hope. 

GLYPH OF NIGHTFALL Level 4 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Very Close range. On a success, spend a Hope to conjure a dark glyph upon their body that exposes their weak points, temporarily reducing the target’s Difficulty by a value equal to your Knowledge (minimum 1). 

HUSH Level 5 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 

Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Close range. On a success, spend a Hope to conjure suppressive magic around the target that encompasses everything within Very Close range of them and follows them as they move. 

The target and anything within the area is Silenced until the GM spends a Fear on their turn to clear this condition, you cast Hush again, or you take Major damage. While Silenced, they can’t make noise and can’t cast spells. 

PHANTOM RETREAT Level 5 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 2 Spend a Hope to activate Phantom Retreat where you’re currently standing. Spend another Hope at any time before your next rest to disappear from where you are and reappear where you were standing when you activated Phantom Retreat. This spell ends after you reappear. 

 Mark a Stress to become Spectral until you make an action roll targeting another creature. While Spectral, you’re immune to physical damage and can float and pass through solid objects. Other creatures can still see you while you’re in this form. 

SPECTER OF THE DARK Level 10 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 This spell lasts until the GM spends a Fear on their turn to clear this effect or you take Severe damage. 

Additionally, when you or an ally succeeds with Hope against an adversary within this shadow, the target must mark a Stress. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (16). Once per long rest on a success, plunge the entire area within Far range into complete darkness only you and your allies can see through. Attack rolls have disadvantage when targeting you or an ally within this shadow. 

ECLIPSE Level 10 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 2 

When you choose a new target or take a rest, clear all unspent tokens. 

Choose a target within Far range. When you succeed on an action roll against them that doesn’t result in making a damage roll, place a token on this card. When you deal damage to this target, spend any number of tokens to add a d12 for each token spent to your damage roll. You can only hold Twilight Toll on one creature at a time. 

TWILIGHTTOLL Level 9 Midnight Ability Recall Cost: 1 Once per long rest, choose any targets within Very Close range to perceive you as a nightmarish horror. The targets must succeed on a Reaction Roll (16) or become temporarily Horrified. While Horrified, they’re Vulnerable. Steal a number of Fear from the GM equal to the number of targets that are Horrified (up to the number of Fear in the GM’s pool). Roll a number of d6s equal to the number of stolen Fear and deal the total damage to each Horrified target. Discard the stolen Fear. 

NIGHTTERROR Level 9 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 2 When you make a successful attack against a target, you can spend any number of tokens to add a d6 for each token spent to your damage roll. 

When you take magic damage, place tokens equal to the number of Hit Points you marked on this card. You can store a number of tokens equal to your Spellcast trait. 

SPELLCHARGE Level 8 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 

Your prowess is enhanced under the cover of shadow. While you’re shrouded in low light or darkness, you gain a +1 bonus to your Evasion and make attack rolls with advantage. 

SHADOWHUNTER Level 8 Midnight Ability Recall Cost: 2 

When an attack made against you that would deal physical damage fails, you can spend a Hope to envelop yourself in shadow, becoming Hidden and teleporting to a point within Close range of the attacker. You remain Hidden until the next time you make an action roll. 

VANISHING DODGE Level 7 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 1 • When you make a successful attack, you can mark a Stress to add the result of your Fear Die to your damage roll. • Once per rest, when you have 0 Hope and the GM would gain a Fear, you can gain a Hope instead. When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Midnight domain, gain the following benefits: 

MIDNIGHT-TOUCHED Level 7 Midnight Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Activate a Countdown (8). It ticks down as a consequence the GM chooses. When it triggers, the disguise drops. 

When you have a few minutes of silence to focus, you can mark a Stress to change the appearance of all willing creatures within Close range. Their new forms must share a general body structure and size, and can be somebody or something you’ve seen before or entirely fabricated. A disguised creature has advantage on Presence Rolls to avoid scrutiny. 

MASS DISGUISE Level 6 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 0 • What do they cherish most in the world? • What are they afraid of? • What are they doing? • Where are they? You can speak into the mind of any person with whom you’ve made physical contact. Once you’ve opened a channel with them, they can speak back into your mind. Additionally, you can mark a Stress to make a Spellcast Roll against them. On a success, you can ask the GM one of the following questions and receive an answer: 

DARKWHISPERS Level 6 Midnight Spell Recall Cost: 0  SAGE DOMAIN SAGE DOMAIN GIFTED TRACKER Level 1 Sage Ability Recall Cost: 0 When you’re tracking a specific creature or group of creatures based on signs of their passage, you can spend any number of Hope and ask the GM that many questions from the following list. 

• What direction did they go? • How long ago did they pass through? • What were they doing in this location? • How many of them were here? When you encounter creatures you’ve tracked in this way, gain a +1 bonus to your Evasion against them. 

NATURE’S TONGUE Level 1 Sage Ability Recall Cost: 0 You can speak the language of the natural world. When you want to speak to the plants and animals around you, make an Instinct Roll (12). On a success, they’ll give you the information they know. On a roll with Fear, their knowledge might be limited or come at a cost. 

Additionally, before you make a Spellcast Roll while within a natural environment, you can spend a Hope to gain a +2 bonus to the roll. 

VICIOUS ENTANGLE Level 1 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On a success, roots and vines reach out from the ground, dealing 1d8+1 physical damage and temporarily Restraining the target. 

Additionally on a success, you can spend a Hope to temporarily Restrain another adversary within Very Close range of your target. 

CONJURE SWARM Level 2 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Tekaira Armored Beetles: Mark a Stress to conjure armored beetles that encircle you. When you next take damage, reduce the severity by one threshold. You can spend a Hope to keep the beetles conjured after taking damage. 

Fire Flies: Make a Spellcast Roll against all adversaries within Close range. Spend a Hope to deal 2d8+3 magic damage to targets you succeeded against. 

NATURALFAMILIAR Level 2 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Spend a Hope to summon a small nature spirit or forest critter to your side until your next rest, you cast Natural Familiar again, or the familiar is targeted by an attack. If you spend an additional Hope, you can summon a familiar that flies. You can communicate with them, make a Spellcast Roll to command them to perform simple tasks, and mark a Stress to see through their eyes. 

When you deal damage to an adversary within Melee range of your familiar, you add a d6 to your damage roll. 

CORROSIVE PROJECTILE Level 3 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On a success, deal d6+4 magic damage using your Proficiency. Additionally, mark 2 or more Stress to make them permanently Corroded. While a target is Corroded, they gain a −1 penalty to their Difficulty for every 2 Stress you spent. This condition can stack. 

TOWERING STALK Level 3 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Once per rest, you can conjure a thick, twisting stalk within Close range that can be easily climbed. Its height can grow up to Far range. 

Mark a Stress to use this spell as an attack. Make a Spellcast Roll against an adversary or group of adversaries within Close range. The erupting stalk lifts targets you succeed against into the air and drops them, dealing d8 physical damage using your Proficiency. 

DEATH GRIP Level 4 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Close range and choose one of the following options: 

• You pull the target into Melee range or pull yourself into Melee range of them. • You constrict the target and force them to mark 2 Stress. • All adversaries between you and the target must succeed on a Reaction Roll (13) or be hit by vines, taking 3d6+2 physical damage. On a success, vines reach out from your hands, causing the chosen effect and temporarily Restraining the target. 

HEALING FIELD Level 4 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 2 Once per long rest, you can conjure a field of healing plants around you. Everywhere within Close range of you bursts to life with vibrant nature, allowing you and all allies in the area to clear a Hit Point. 

Spend 2 Hope to allow you and all allies to clear 2 Hit Points instead. 

THORN SKIN Level 5 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Once per rest, spend a Hope to sprout thorns all over your body. When you do, place a number of tokens equal to your Spellcast trait on this card. When you take damage, you can spend any number of tokens to roll that number of d6s. Add the results together and reduce the incoming damage by that amount. If you’re within Melee range of the attacker, deal that amount of damage back to them. 

When you take a rest, clear all unspent tokens. 

 Before you make an action roll, you must spend a Hope. If you can’t, you revert to your normal form. 

• You can’t be Restrained. • When you deal enough damage to defeat a creature within Close range, you absorb them and clear an Armor Slot. • When you succeed on an attack or Spellcast Roll, gain a +10 bonus to the damage roll. Mark a Stress to transform into a hulking nature spirit, gaining the following benefits: 

FORCE OF NATURE Level 10 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 2 Make a Spellcast Roll (18). Once per long rest on a success, you reshape the natural world, changing the surrounding plant life anywhere within Far range of you. For example, you can grow trees instantly, clear a path through dense vines, or create a wall of roots. 

PLANTDOMINION Level 9 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 When you take a long rest, clear all unspent tokens. 

When you critically succeed on a Spellcast Roll for a Sage domain spell, gain a token. 

When you would make a Spellcast Roll, you can spend any number of tokens after the roll to gain a +1 bonus for each token spent. 

After a long rest, place a number of tokens equal to the number of Sage domain cards in your loadout and vault on this card. 

FANE OF THE WILDS Level 9 Sage Ability Recall Cost: 2 When you move, the barrier follows you. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (15). Once per rest on a success, create a temporary barrier of protective energy around you at Very Close range. You and all allies within the barrier when this spell is cast clear 1d4 Hit Points. While the barrier is up, you and all allies within have resistance to physical damage from outside the barrier. 

REJUVENATION BARRIER Level 8 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 A sprite vanishes after granting a benefit or taking any damage. 

• An ally who marks an Armor Slot while within Melee range of a sprite can mark an additional Armor Slot. • Your allies gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls against adversaries within Melee range of a sprite. Make a Spellcast Roll (13). On a success, spend any number of Hope to create an equal number of small forest sprites who appear at points you choose within Far range, providing the following benefits: 

FORESTSPRITES Level 8 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 2 While the Wild Surge Die is active, you add its value to every action roll you make. After you add its value to a roll, increase the Wild Surge Die’s value by one. When the die’s value would exceed 6 or you take a rest, this form drops and you must mark an additional Stress. 

Once per long rest, mark a Stress to channel the natural world around you and enhance yourself. Describe how your appearance changes, then place a d6 on this card with the 1 value facing up. 

WILD SURGE Level 7 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 2 • Once per rest, you can double your Agility or Instinct when making a roll that uses that trait. You must choose to do this before you roll. • While you’re in a natural environment, you gain a +2 bonus to your Spellcast Rolls. When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Sage domain, gain the following benefits: 

SAGE-TOUCHED Level 7 Sage Ability Recall Cost: 2 

6. Choose one of the options above. 5. A luck charm (Reroll any die) WILD FORTRESS Level 5 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll (13). On a success, spend 2 Hope to grow a natural barricade in the shape of a dome that you and one ally can take cover within. While inside the dome, a creature can’t be targeted by attacks and can’t make attacks. Attacks made against the dome automatically succeed. The dome has the following damage thresholds and lasts until it marks 3 Hit Points. Place tokens on this card to represent marking Hit Points. 

Thresholds: 15/30 

CONJURED STEEDS Level 6 Sage Spell Recall Cost: 0 Spend any number of Hope to conjure that many magical steeds (such as horses, camels, or elephants) that you and your allies can ride until your next long rest or the steeds take any damage. The steeds double your land speed while traveling and, when in danger, allow you to move within Far range without having to roll. Creatures riding a steed gain a −2 penalty to attack rolls and a +2 bonus to damage rolls. 

FORAGER Level 6 Sage Ability Recall Cost: 1 

As an additional downtime move you can choose, roll a d6 to see what you forage. Work with the GM to describe it and add it to your inventory as a consumable. Your party can carry up to five foraged consumables at a time. 

1. A unique food (Clear 2 Stress) 2. A beautiful relic (Gain 2 Hope) 3. An arcane rune (+2 to a Spellcast Roll) 4. A healing vial (Clear 2 Hit Points)  You can only affect the material within Close range of where you’re touching it. 

Spend a Hope to shape a section of natural material you’re touching (such as stone, ice, or wood) to suit your purpose. The area of the material can be no larger than you. For example, you can form a rudimentary tool or create a door. 

SHAPE MATERIAL Level 5 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 This effect ends when it saves the target from a death move, you cast Life Ward on another target, or you take a long rest. 

Spend 3 Hope and choose an ally within Close range. They are marked with a glowing sigil of protection. When this ally would make a death move, they clear a Hit Point instead. 

LIFE WARD Level 4 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 Once per long rest, spend 3 Hope to reach out to the forces beyond and ask one “yes or no” question about an event, person, place, or situation in the near future. For a moment, the present falls away and you see the answer before you. 

DIVINATION Level 4 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 

Additionally, you’re emboldened in moments of duress. When all of your Stress slots are marked, you gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for damage rolls. 

You speak with an unmatched power and authority. You have advantage on action rolls to de-escalate violent situations or convince someone to follow your lead. 

VOICE OF REASON Level 3 Splendor Ability Recall Cost: 1 Once per rest, when you succeed on an attack against an adversary, you can clear 3 Stress or a Hit Point. On a success with Hope, you also clear 3 Stress or a Hit Point on an ally within Close range of you. 

SECOND WIND Level 3 Splendor Ability Recall Cost: 2 Make a Spellcast Roll (13) and target a creature other than yourself within Melee range. On a success, mark a Stress to clear 2 Hit Points or 2 Stress on the target. On a failure, mark a Stress to clear a Hit Point or a Stress on the target. You can’t heal the same target again until your next long rest. 

HEALING HANDS Level 2 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 You can infuse a corpse with a moment of life to speak with it. Make a Spellcast Roll (13). On a success with Hope, the corpse answers up to three questions. On a success with Fear, the corpse answers one question. The corpse answers truthfully, but it can’t impart information it didn’t know in life. On a failure, or once the corpse has finished answering your questions, the body turns to dust. 

FINALWORDS Level 2 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 Once per rest, after an ally attempts an action roll but before the consequences take place, you can offer assistance or words of support. When you do, your ally can reroll their dice. 

REASSURANCE Level 1 Splendor Ability Recall Cost: 0 

Once per long rest, when you spend this healing time learning something new about them or revealing something about yourself, you can clear 2 Hit Points or 2 Stress on them instead. 

You lay your hands upon a creature and channel healing magic to close their wounds. When you can take a few minutes to focus on the target you’re helping, you can spend 2 Hope to clear a Hit Point or a Stress on them. 

MENDING TOUCH Level 1 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On a success, spend a Hope to send a bolt of shimmering light toward them, dealing d8+2 magic damage using your Proficiency. The target becomes temporarily Vulnerable and glows brightly until this condition is cleared. 

BOLTBEACON Level 1 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 • Sandstorm: Deal 5d6+9 magic damage. Attacks made from beyond Melee range have disadvantage. • Hurricane: Deal 3d10+10 magic damage and choose a direction the wind is blowing. Targets can’t move against the wind. temporararily Vulnerable. 

• Blizzard: Deal 2d20+8 magic damage and targets are Choose one of the following tempests and make a Spellcast Roll against all targets within Far range. Targets you succeed against experience its effects until the GM spends a Fear on their turn to end this spell. 

TEMPEST Level 10 Sage Spell 

SPLENDOR DOMAIN  On a failure, you can’t cast Resurrection again for a week. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (20). On a success, restore one creature who has been dead no longer than 100 years to full strength. Then roll a d6. On a result of 5 or lower, place this card in your vault permanently. 

RESURRECTION Level 10 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 

When you or an ally within Close range has used a feature that has an exhaustion limit (such as once per rest or once per session), you can spend any number of Hope and roll that many d6s. If any roll a 6, the feature can be used again. 

INVIGORATION Level 10 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 3 

Make a Spellcast Roll (16). On a success, mark any number of Stress to target a line of allies within Far range. You can clear Hit Points on the targets equal to the number of Stress marked, divided among them however you’d like. 

SALVATION BEAM Level 9 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 While this spell is active, an adversary must mark a Stress when they target you with an attack. 

Make a Spellcast Roll (15) to magically empower your aura. On a success, spend 2 Hope to make your Presence equal to your Spellcast trait until your next long rest. 

OVERWHELMING AURA Level 9 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 Targets who succeed take 3d20+3 magic damage. Targets who fail take 4d20+5 magic damage and are temporarily Stunned. While Stunned, they can’t use reactions and can’t take any other actions until they clear this condition. 

Make a Spellcast Roll to unleash powerful rays of burning sunlight against all adversaries in front of you within Far range. On a success, spend any number of Hope and force that many targets you succeeded against to make a Reaction Roll (14). 

STUNNING SUNLIGHT Level 8 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 You can only hold Shield Aura on one creature at a time. 

Mark a Stress to cast a protective aura on a target within Very Close range. When the target marks an Armor Slot, they reduce the severity of the attack by an additional threshold. If this spell causes a creature who would be damaged to instead mark no Hit Points, the effect ends. 

SHIELD AURA Level 8 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 • Once per long rest, when incoming damage would require you to mark a number of Hit Points, you can choose to mark that much Stress or spend that much Hope instead. • +3 bonus to your Severe damage threshold 

When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Splendor domain, gain the following benefits: 

SPLENDOR-TOUCHED Level 7 Splendor Ability Recall Cost: 2 

When you deal damage to an adversary, you can spend 2 Hope to clear a Hit Point on an ally within Close range. 

HEALING STRIKE Level 7 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 1 Make a Spellcast Roll (16). Once per long rest on a success, choose a point within Far range and create a visible zone of protection there for all allies within Very Close range of that point. When you do, place a d6 on this card with the 1 value facing up. When an ally in this zone takes damage, they reduce it by the die’s value. You then increase the die’s value by one. When the die’s value would exceed 6, this effect ends. 

ZONE OF PROTECTION Level 6 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 When you take a long rest, clear all unspent tokens. 

You can also spend a token from this card when touching a creature to clear the Vulnerable condition or heal a physical or magical ailment (the GM might require additional tokens depending on the strength of the ailment). 

After a long rest, place a number of tokens equal to your Spellcast trait on this card. Touch a creature and spend any number of tokens to clear 2 Hit Points or 2 Stress for each token spent. 

RESTORATION Level 6 Splendor Spell Recall Cost: 2 

Once per rest, spend 3 Hope to charge your powerful smite. When you next successfully attack with a weapon, double the result of your damage roll. This attack deals magic damage regardless of the weapon’s damage type. 

SMITE Level 5 Splendor Spell 

 VALOR DOMAIN VALOR DOMAIN BARE BONES Level 1 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 0 

When you choose not to equip armor, you have a base Armor Score of 3 + your Strength and use the following as your base damage thresholds: 

• Tier 1: 9/19 

• Tier 2: 11/24 

• Tier 3: 13/31 

• Tier 4: 15/38 

FORCEFUL PUSH Level 1 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 0 

Make an attack with your primary weapon against a target within Melee range. On a success, you deal damage and knock them back to Close range. On a success with Hope, add a d6 to your damage roll. 

Additionally, you can spend a Hope to make them temporarily Vulnerable. 

I AM YOUR SHIELD Level 1 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When an ally within Very Close range would take damage, you can mark a Stress to stand in the way and make yourself the target of the attack instead. When you take damage from this attack, you can mark any number of Armor Slots. 

BODY BASHER Level 2 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

You use the full force of your body in a fight. On a successful attack using a weapon with a Melee range, gain a bonus to your damage roll equal to your Strength. 

BOLD PRESENCE Level 2 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 0 

When you make a Presence Roll, you can spend a Hope to add your Strength to the roll. 

Additionally, once per rest when you would gain a condition, you can describe how your bold presence aids you in the situation and avoid gaining the condition. 

CRITICAL INSPIRATION Level 3 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Once per rest, when you critically succeed on an attack, all allies within Very Close range can clear a Stress or gain a Hope. 

LEAN ON ME Level 3 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Once per long rest, when you console or inspire an ally who failed an action roll, you can both clear 2 Stress. 

GOAD THEM ON Level 4 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Describe how you taunt a target within Close range, then make a Presence Roll against them. On a success, the target must mark a Stress, and the next time the GM spotlights them, they must target you with an attack, which they make with disadvantage. 

SUPPORT TANK Level 4 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 2 

When an ally within Close range fails a roll, you can spend 2 Hope to allow them to reroll either their Hope or Fear Die. 

ARMORER Level 5 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

While you’re wearing armor, gain a +1 bonus to your Armor 

Score. During a rest, when you choose to repair your armor as a downtime move, your allies also clear an Armor Slot. 

ROUSING STRIKE Level 5 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Once per rest, when you critically succeed on an attack, you and all allies who can see or hear you can clear a Hit Point or 1d4 Stress. 

INEVITABLE Level 6 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you fail an action roll, your next action roll has advantage. 

RISE UP Level 6 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Gain a bonus to your Severe threshold equal to your Proficiency. 

When you mark 1 or more Hit Points from an attack, clear a Stress. 

SHRUG IT OFF Level 7 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you would take damage, you can mark a Stress to reduce the severity of the damage by one threshold. When you do, roll a d6. On a result of 3 or lower, place this card in your vault. 

VALOR-TOUCHED Level 7 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from the Valor domain, gain the following benefits: 

• +1 bonus to your Armor Score 

• When you mark 1 or more Hit Points without marking an Armor Slot, clear an Armor Slot.  FULL SURGE Level 8 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Once per long rest, mark 3 Stress to push your body to its limits. Gain a +2 bonus to all of your character traits until your next rest. 

GROUND POUND Level 8 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 2 

Spend 2 Hope to strike the ground where you stand and make a Strength Roll against all targets within Very Close range. Targets you succeed against are thrown back to Far range and must make a Reaction Roll (17). Targets who fail take 4d10+8 damage. Targets who succeed take half damage. 

HOLD THE LINE Level 9 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

Describe the defensive stance you take and spend a Hope. If an adversary moves within Very Close range, they’re pulled into Melee range and Restrained. 

This condition lasts until you move or fail a roll with Fear, or the GM spends 2 Fear on their turn to clear it. 

LEAD BY EXAMPLE Level 9 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 3 

When you deal damage to an adversary, you can mark a Stress and describe how you encourage your allies. The next PC to make an attack against that adversary can clear a Stress or gain a Hope. 

UNBREAKABLE Level 10 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 4 

When you mark your last Hit Point, instead of making a death move, you can roll a d6 and clear a number of Hit Points equal to the result. Then place this card in your vault. 

UNYIELDING ARMOR Level 10 Valor Ability Recall Cost: 1 

When you would mark an Armor Slot, roll a number of d6s equal to your Proficiency. If any roll a 6, reduce the severity by one threshold without marking an Armor Slot. 

 